---
layout: default 
title: "Section 4.01 Powers, Number, Selection and Term."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Except as limited or directed by this Charter, all powers of the
City not inconsistent with this Charter shall be vested in a Council
which shall have power to legislate under the authority of this Charter
and to enact all ordinances and resolutions necessary and proper for
carrying into execution the purposes of this Charter. Council shall
consist of seven (7) Council Members, of which six (6) shall be Council
Members elected for overlapping terms, as modified by Section
[13.04](14bb022d.html).

​(b) Two (2) Council Members and the Mayor will be elected at large for
a four (4)-year term of office and every four (4) years thereafter. Two
(2) years later, and every four (4) years thereafter, four (4) Council
Members will be elected from wards for a four (4)-year term of office.
Within six (6) months after the adoption of this Charter, Council shall
divide the City into four (4) wards for purposes of electing ward
Council Members. Within one (1) year following receipt of each Federal
decennial census information, or at any other time when necessary to
achieve substantially equal population in each ward, the Council will
redivide the City into four (4) wards of substantially equal population.

​(c) The regular term of Council Members and the Mayor shall begin the
first day of January following their election. Each shall take the oath
of office after certification of election by the Board of Elections, but
prior to the first day of January following their election. They will
serve until their successors are chosen and are qualified as such. If a
Council Member-elect fails to qualify, or dies, or resigns, the position
shall be filled according to the provisions of this Charter for
vacancies in Council. All elections of Council Members and the Mayor
shall be on a nonpartisan basis. (Amended 11-4-08.)
