---
layout: default 
title: Section 4.03 Mayor and Deputy-Mayor.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected by separate ballot from the
City-at-large for a four (4)-year term. The Mayor shall be a Council
Member and have the right to vote on all issues before the Council, but
shall have no veto power. In addition to the powers, rights and duties
as a Council Member as herein provided, the Mayor, when present, shall
preside at meetings of the Council, shall be recognized as head of the
City government for all ceremonial and non-administrative purposes, by
the Governor for purposes of military law, and by the Courts for civil
process involving the City. The Mayor shall have judicial powers. The
Mayor shall perform all other duties prescribed for the office by
ordinance or by resolutions of the Council not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Charter.

​(b) Deputy-Mayor. The Council shall, at the first regular meeting in
January following its election, choose, by a majority vote of all
members of the Council, one of its members a Deputy-Mayor who shall act
as Mayor during the absence or disability of the Mayor. If a vacancy
occurs, the Deputy-Mayor shall serve as Mayor until the next regular
City election. At such election, a Mayor shall be elected to serve for
the unexpired term, if any; if not, for a full term. Upon the election
of a Mayor, other than the Deputy-Mayor then serving as Mayor, the
Deputy-Mayor may retain a position as Council Member for the remainder
of his unexpired term.

In the event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor whereby the
Deputy-Mayor is required to serve as Mayor, the Council shall select a
person to fill the vacancy in Council as provided in Section
[4.05](1353af4e.html)(d). However, the person so chosen shall serve only
until a Mayor is elected as provided herein. (Amended 11-4-08.)
