---
layout: default 
title: Section 4.04 Prohibitions.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Holding Other Offices. Except where authorized by this Charter,
neither a Council Member nor the Mayor shall hold any other City office
or City employment during the term for which said Council Member or
Mayor was elected or appointed to the Council, and no former Council
Member or Mayor shall hold any compensated appointive City office or
City employment until two (2) years after the expiration of the term for
which he was elected or appointed except for an appointment to Council
to fill an unexpired term pursuant to Section [4.05.](1353af4e.html) No
member of the Council shall hold any incompatible office.

​(b) Appointment and Removals. Neither the Council nor any of its
members, including the Mayor, shall in any manner dictate the
appointment or removal of any City officers or employees whom the
Manager or any subordinates are empowered to appoint or remove, but the
Council as a body meeting with the Manager may express its views, and
fully and freely discuss with the Manager anything pertaining to
appointment and removal of such officers and employees.

​(c) Authority of Manager. The Council or its members shall deal with
the City officers and employees who are subject to the direction and
supervision of the Manager solely through the Manager, and neither the
Council nor its members shall give any orders to any such officer or
employee, either publicly or privately.

​(d) Personal Financial Interest. Any Council Member of the City who has
a financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract with the City
or in the sale of any land, material or services to the City or to a
contractor supplying the City shall make known that interest and shall
refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in that capacity as
an elected official of the City in making of such sale or in the making
or performance of such contract. Violation of this section with the
knowledge, express or implied, of the person or corporation contracting
with or making a sale to the City shall render the contract or sale
voidable by the Council. (Amended 11-4-08.)
