---
layout: default 
title: Section 4.05 Vacancies; Forfeiture of Office; Disability; Filling of Vacancies.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Vacancies. The office of Council Member shall become vacant upon
the Council Member's death, resignation, removal from office in any
manner authorized by this Charter, or forfeiture of office.

(b) Forfeiture of Office. A Council Member shall forfeit office if said
Council Member:

(1) Lacks at any time during a term of office, any qualifications for
the office prescribed by this Charter;

(2) Intentionally violates any express prohibition of this Charter;

(3) Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or malfeasance;

(4) Fails to attend three consecutive regular meetings of Council,
without being excused by the Council.

(c) Disability. On questions of disability involving the Mayor,
Deputy-Mayor or Council Member, the decision as to actuality of, the
time of, and the duration of the disability for purposes of declaring a
vacancy shall be determined by a majority vote of the remaining members
of Council.

(d) Filling of Vacancies. Vacancies in the office of Council Member
shall be filled within thirty (30) days by vote of a majority of the
remaining members of Council. If a vacancy occurs on one (1) or more
positions among Council Members elect, Council of the new term shall
appoint, by majority vote, an eligible citizen of the City of
Springboro. If the Council fails to do so within thirty (30) days
following the occurrence of the vacancy, the power of Council to fill
the vacancy shall lapse and the Mayor shall fill the vacancy by
appointment immediately following the expiration of the said thirty (30)
days. Any appointee under this section shall qualify under the
provisions of this Charter, shall hold office, and shall serve for the
unexpired term or until a successor is elected and qualified, or until
replaced by a Deputy Mayor who has been serving as Mayor and who is
returning to the position of Council Member pursuant to Section
[4.03](1346a0c0.html)(b).

(Amended 11-4-08.)
