---
layout: default 
title: Section 4.06 Recall.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The electors shall have the power to remove from office, by recall
election, any elected officer of the City. If an elected officer shall
have served for six (6) months of a term, a petition demanding his
removal may be filed with the Clerk of Council who shall note thereon
the name and address of the elector filing the petition, and the date of
such filing. Such petition may be circulated in separate parts, but the
separate parts shall be bound together and filed as one instrument. Each
part shall contain the name and office of the person whose removal is
sought, and a statement in not more than two hundred (200) words of the
grounds for removal.

​(a) In the case of a Ward Council Member, such petition shall be signed
by at least fifteen (15) percent of the total number of registered
voters from that Ward at the time of the most recent election for that
position. For the purposes of recall, an appointed Ward Councilman shall
be treated as an elected member.

​(b) In the case of an at-large Council Member or the Mayor, such
petition shall be signed by at least fifteen (15) percent of the total
number of registered voters from the City at the time of the most recent
election for that position. For the purposes of recall, an appointed
at-large Council Member shall be treated as an elected member. Within
ten days after the day on which such petition is filed, the Clerk of
Council shall determine whether or not it meets the requirements hereof.

If the Clerk of Council shall find the petition insufficient, the Clerk
shall within twenty (20) days certify the particulars in which the
petition is defective, deliver a copy of the certificate to the person
who filed the petition with the Clerk, and make a record of such
delivery. Such person shall be allowed a period of twenty (20) days
after the day on which such delivery was made in which to make the
petition sufficient. If the Clerk of Council shall find the petition
sufficient, the Clerk shall within twenty (20) days so certify to the
Council, shall deliver a copy of such certificate to the officer whose
removal is sought, and shall make a record of such delivery. If such
officer shall not resign within five (5) days after the day on which
such delivery shall have been made, the Council shall thereupon fix a
day for holding a recall election, not less than six (6) days nor more
than seventy-five (75) days after the date of such delivery.

At such recall election, conducted by the Board of Elections of Warren
County, Ohio, as stated in Section [11.02](1483162f.html), this question
shall be placed on the ballot: "Shall (naming the officer) be allowed to
continue as (naming the office)?" with provision on the ballot for
voting affirmatively or negatively on such question. If a majority of
the votes cast at such election be voted affirmatively, such officer
shall remain in office. If a majority of the votes cast shall be voted
negatively, such officer shall be considered as removed, said office
shall be deemed vacant, and such vacancy shall be filled as provided in
this Charter. The officer removed by such recall election shall not be
eligible for appointment to the vacancy thereby.

(Amended 11-4-08.)
