---
layout: default 
title: Section 5.05 Emergency Ordinances.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

To meet a public emergency affecting health, safety, morals, or the
public welfare, or a special emergency in the operation of a City
department the Council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but
such ordinances may not: levy taxes, except when incidental to incurring
debt; grant, renew, or extend a franchise, except one affecting health;
regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or
grant any special privileges. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced
in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally, except that
it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall
contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an
emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. A
proposed emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or
rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative
vote of at least five (5) members of Council shall be required for
adoption. After its adoption the ordinance shall be published as
prescribed for other adopted ordinances. It shall become effective upon
adoption or at such later time as it may specify.

An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing
ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of
emergency ordinances. No emergency ordinance shall be subject to the
initiative and referendum. (Amended 11-4-08.)
