---
layout: default 
title: Section 5.09 Authentication and Recording; Codification; Reproduction.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Authentication and Recording. The Clerk of Council shall
authenticate by the Clerk's signature, along with the signature of the
Presiding Officer of the Council, and record in full, in a properly
indexed journal kept for the purpose, all ordinances and resolutions
adopted by the Council.

(b) Codification. At least every two (2) years, the Council shall
provide a general codification of all City ordinances and resolutions
having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be
adopted by the Council and shall be published promptly in bound or
loose-leaf form, together with this Charter and any amendments thereto,
including any pertinent provisions (as the Council may specify) of the
Ohio Constitution, other laws of the State of Ohio, codes of technical
regulations, and other rules and regulations or pertinent supplementary
matter of service or interest. This compilation shall be known and cited
officially as the Springboro City Code. Copies of the City Code shall be
furnished to City officers, placed in public City offices for free
public reference, and made available for purchase by the public at cost
as determined by Council.

(c) Reproduction of Ordinances and Resolutions. The Council shall cause
each ordinance and resolution having the force and effect of law and
each amendment to this Charter to be reproduced promptly following its
adoption, and the reproduced ordinances and resolutions and Charter
amendments shall be distributed or sold to the public at cost as
determined by the Council. The Council shall make further arrangements
as it deems necessary with respect to reproduction and distribution of
any changes in or additions to the provisions of the Constitution and
other laws of the State of Ohio, or the codes of technical regulations,
and rules and regulations included in the City Code. (Amended 11-4-08.)
