---
layout: default 
title: Section 5.10 Mandatory Requirements for Formation
of City Contracts.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

No agreement obligating the City to pay money or undertake debt; or to
sell, buy or encumber real or personal property; or to lease real or
personal property to or from others; or to accept real or personal
property; or to perform any act or refrain from performing any act; or
to become obligated for any combination of these; shall be enforceable
against the City unless the agreement satisfies the following
requirements and formalities, which are mandatory:

​(a) It has been specifically approved by an ordinance or resolution
adopted by the Council, or categorically approved by an ordinance
adopted by the Council for inclusion in the Administrative Code for the
purpose of facilitating routine transactions.

​(b) It is in writing, with the date of execution by each signatory
separately indicated.

​(c) It has been executed by the City Manager, or by his designee under
those circumstances in which the City Manager is authorized by ordinance
to appoint a designee.

Nothing in this Section shall be construed as preventing the City from
performing all or part of an unenforceable contract if in its interest
to do so, but neither full or part performance by the City or by any
other party shall create any legal or equitable obligation enforceable
against the City.

The Council may by ordinance establish additional formalities, rules and
procedures controlling the formation of City contracts. Nothing in this
Section shall prevent the retroactive approval of a contract by the
Council by ordinance or resolution.

By the publication of this Charter, all persons doing business with the
City shall be deemed to have constructive notice of these mandatory
limitations on City contracting. Such persons have an affirmative duty
to assure themselves that all applicable legal requirements have been
complied with for the formation of a City contract, and failing to do
so, assume the risk of doing business under an unenforceable contract.
(Amended 11-4-08.)
