---
layout: default 
title: Section 6.02 Powers and Duties.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of
the City. The Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the
administration of all City affairs placed in the Manager's charge by or
under this Charter. The Manager shall have the following powers and
duties:

​(a) To see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts of the
Council, subject to enforcement by him or her or by officers subject to
his or her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;

​(b) To submit to the Council and make available to the public a
complete report of the finances, administrative activities and an
inventory of the properties of the City as of the end of each fiscal
year;

​(c) To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the
Council;

​(d) To keep the Council fully advised as to the financial conditions
and future needs of the City and make such recommendations to the
Council concerning the affairs of the City as he deems desirable, or as
Council may require;

​(e) To direct and supervise the administration of all departments of
the City except as otherwise provided by this Charter;

​(f) To appoint and, when the Manager deems it necessary, to suspend or
remove any City employee or appointive administrative officer, except as
otherwise provided by this Charter or by personnel rules adopted
pursuant to this Charter. The Manager may authorize any employee who is
subject to the Manager's direction and supervision to exercise these
powers with respect to subordinates in that employee's department.

​(g) To attend all Council meetings and have the right to take part in
discussion, but not to vote;

​(h) To make such other reports as the Council may require concerning
the operations of the City departments subject to the Manager's
direction and supervision;

​(i) To negotiate, prepare, sign, administer, suspend and terminate
contracts, franchises and agreements, subject to the limitations imposed
by Section[5.10](13adf2f6.html) of this Charter;

​(j) To perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter or
may be required by the Council within the limits of the Charter.

​(k) To serve as ex-officio member without a vote on all boards and
commissions, except the Personnel Board. (Amended 11-4-08.)
