---
layout: default 
title: "Section 7.06 Department of Finance."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The Finance Director, after consultation with the Office of the Auditor
of State, shall establish accounting and procedure systems to conform to
State law. The Director shall maintain and prepare all financial and
accounting information in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles as presented and recommended by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board insofar as same are not contrary to State law and as
same may be supplemented and modified from time to time to conform to
any financial disclosure guidelines adopted by the Council in order to
market the bonds and notes of the City. The Finance Director shall be
the fiscal officer of the City and shall be responsible for accounting,
collection and custody of public funds, and control over disbursements.
The Finance Director shall be responsible for the establishment of
accounting procedures and financial reporting practices for all Boards
and Commissions. The Finance Director shall advise the Manager and the
Council concerning the financial conditions of the City and shall
examine all payrolls, bills and other claims against the City and shall
issue no warrants unless it shall be determined that the claim is in
proper form, correctly computed, duly approved and within appropriations
made by the Council. The Finance Director shall countersign all bonds
and notes issued by the City and shall perform other functions as may be
assigned by the Administrative Code or by the order of the Manager.

(Amended 11-4-08.)
