---
layout: default 
title: Section 7.09 Department of Law.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

There shall be a Department of Law, the head of which shall be the Law
Director. The Law Director shall be an attorney-at-law, qualified to
practice law in the State of Ohio, appointed by and subject to the
direction of the Council. A law firm, rather than an individual
attorney, may serve as Law Director and in that case, an attorney of
that firm may be designated by the Council to serve as the nominal Law
Director. The attorney so designated shall serve with the title of Law
Director, and other attorneys of that firm may serve as Acting Law
Director with all the powers, duties and functions of the Law Director
when the person designated as Law Director is not available. The Law
Director shall serve as the chief legal advisor to the Council, the City
Manager, and all City departments, boards, commissions, or authorities.
The Law Director shall represent the City in all legal proceedings
unless otherwise directed by the Council, and shall perform any other
duties prescribed by this Charter, by ordinance or resolution or by the
Administrative Code or the general laws of the State of Ohio. The person
or firm holding the office of Law Director shall not be required to
represent any school district or any other unit of government, other
than the City, by virtue of holding the office of Law Director. When
necessary, the Council may appoint special legal counsel to represent
the City, together with, or in place of, the Law Director. (Amended
11-4-08.)
