---
layout: default
title: "Section 9.06 Planning Commission."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Membership. There shall be a City Planning Commission consisting of seven (7) members, two (2) of whom shall be members of Council appointed for a term of one (1) year, and five (5) citizen members who have resided in the City for a minimum period of two (2) consecutive years, immediately prior to such appointment, are to be appointed from among the qualified electors of the City. Except as to the first appointments, the five (5) citizen members shall serve four (4)-year overlapping terms of office. Citizen members of the Planning Commission shall hold no other City office, unless otherwise permitted by this Charter. The Council shall fill all vacancies by appointment for the unexpired term.

(b) Duties. The Planning Commission shall conduct studies and surveys and prepare plans, reports and maps relative to the overall planning of the growth, development, redevelopment, rehabilitation, and renewal of the City, and may make such recommendations relative thereto to the Council as it feels are in the best interest of the City. The Planning Commission shall continuously review and report to the Council its recommendations concerning the City's subdivisions, platting and zoning ordinances, and regulations. Other powers and duties of the Planning Commission shall include those established by this Charter and by the Council by ordinance or resolution but until such ordinances or resolutions shall be passed, it shall possess such other powers and duties as are provided by the general laws of Ohio, to the extent that such general laws do not conflict with the provisions of this Charter. 

(Amended 11-4-08.)