Section 13.14 Mayor's Court Magistrate.
=======================================

​(a) The Springboro Mayor's Court shall have all powers conferred by the
Ohio Revised Code as amended from time to time.

​(b) Jurisdiction of Magistrate. The Magistrate shall have jurisdiction
to hear and make a recommendation of his or her findings as allowed by
the Ohio Revised Code.

​(c) Appeal. Appeals from a Magistrate's recommendation may be taken as
allowed by the Ohio Revised Code.

​(d) Qualifications of Magistrate.

​(1) The Magistrate shall be an attorney licensed to practice in the
State of Ohio.

​(2) The Magistrate shall have a minimum of three (3) years experience
as a practicing attorney.

​(3) The Magistrate shall not hold any other City office or City
employment during the term for which said Magistrate was appointed.

​(e) Selection Process of Magistrate. The Mayor shall review the
qualifications of all applicants. From the applicants, the Mayor shall
nominate three applicants to Council within fifteen (15) days of a
vacancy. Council shall within fifteen (15) days, by a majority vote of
members of the Council, appoint a qualified candidate to serve as the
Magistrate of the Mayor's Court.

​(f) Term. A Magistrate shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years.
If a vacancy occurs, the unexpired term shall be filled by using the
same procedure described in Section [13.14](14eb4ffb.html)(e).

​(g) Compensation. The Council may determine the compensation of the
Magistrate.

​(h) Supervision. The Magistrate shall be subject to the exclusive
supervision of the Mayor except as otherwise required by the Ohio
Revised Code.

​(i) Removal. The Council may remove the Magistrate from office in
accordance with the following procedures:

​(1) The Council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all
members a preliminary resolution which must state the reason for removal
and may suspend the Magistrate from duty for a period not to exceed
forty-five (45) days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered
promptly to the Magistrate. During his suspension, Council shall appoint
an acting Magistrate for a term not to exceed sixty (60) days.

​(2) Within five (5) days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to
the Magistrate, the Magistrate may file with the Council a written
request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held at a Council
meeting not earlier than fifteen (15) days nor later than thirty (30)
days after the request is filed. The Magistrate may file with the
Council a written reply not later than five (5) days before the hearing.

​(3) The Council may adopt a final resolution of removal, which may be
made effective immediately, by affirmative vote of five (5) of the
Council Members at any time after five (5) days from the date when a
copy of the preliminary resolution was delivered to the Magistrate, if
the Magistrate has not requested a public hearing, or at any time after
the public hearing if one has been requested.

The action of the Council in suspending or removing the Magistrate shall
not be subject to review by any court or agency.

​(j) Absence or Disability of Magistrate. In the event of absence,
vacancy or during the disability of the Magistrate, Council by a
majority vote may designate an Acting Magistrate until a Magistrate has
been appointed pursuant to Section[13.14](14eb4ffb.html)(e). (Amended
11-4-08.) **CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF SPRINGBORO**
