202.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
===========================

As used in the Codified Ordinances, unless another definition is
provided or the context otherwise requires:

​(a) "And" may be read "or", and "or" may be read "and", if the sense
requires it.

(ORC 1.02(F))

​(b) "Another" when used to designate the owner of property which is the
subject of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every
other owner of property.

(ORC 1.02(B))

​(c) "Bond" includes an undertaking and "undertaking" includes a bond.

(ORC 1.02(D), (E))

​(d) "Council" means the legislative authority of the Municipality.

​(e) "County" means Warren County, Ohio.

​(f) "Keeper" or "proprietor" includes all persons, whether acting by
themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.

​(g) "Land" or "real estate" includes rights and easements of an
incorporeal nature.

(ORC 701.01(F))

​(h) "Municipality" means the Municipality of Springboro, Ohio.

​(i) "Oath" includes affirmation and "swear" includes affirm.

(ORC 1.59(B))

​(j) "Owner", when applied to property, includes any part owner, joint
owner or tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.

​(k) "Person" includes an individual, corporation, business trust,
estate, trust, partnership and association.

(ORC 1.59(C))

​(l) "Premises", as applied to property, includes land and buildings.

​(m) "Property" means real and personal property.

(ORC 1.59(E))

"Personal property" includes all property except real.

"Real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.

​(n) "Public authority" includes boards of education; the Municipal,
County, State or Federal government, its officers or an agency thereof;
or any duly authorized public official.

​(o) "Public place" includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery,
school yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any
other place for the sale of merchandise, public accommodation or
amusement.

​(p) "Registered mail" includes certified mail and "certified mail"
includes registered mail.

(ORC 1.02(G))

​(q) "Rule" includes regulation. (ORC 1.59(F))

​(r) "Sidewalk" means that portion of the street between the curb line
and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.

​(s) "This State" or "the State" means the State of Ohio.

(ORC 1.59(G))

​(t) "Street" includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads,
highways, viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the
Municipality.

​(u) "Tenant" or "occupant", as applied to premises, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or
any part of such premises, alone or with others.

​(v) "Whoever" includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.

(ORC 1.02(A))

​(w) "Written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures. This provision does not affect any law
relating to signatures.

(ORC 1.59(J))
