---
layout: default 
title: 202.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Common and Technical Usage. Words and phrases shall be read in
context and construed according to the rules of grammar and common
usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular
meaning, whether by legislative definition or otherwise, shall be
construed accordingly.

(ORC 1.42)

​(b) Singular and Plural; Gender; Tense. As used in the Codified
Ordinances, unless the context otherwise requires:

​(1) The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.

​(2) Words of one gender include the other genders.

​(3) Words in the present tense include the future.

(ORC 1.43)

​(c) Calendar; Computation of Time.

​(1) Definitions.

A. "Week" means seven consecutive days.

B. "Year" means twelve consecutive months.

(ORC 1.44)

​(2) If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the
concluding month as the day of the month from which the computation is
begun, unless there are not that many days in the concluding month, in
which case the period ends on the last day of that month.

(ORC 1.45)

​(3) The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day, except that
when the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may
be done on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.

When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day which constitutes
the last day for doing such act or before its usual closing time on such
day, then such act may be performed on the next succeeding day which is
not a Sunday or a legal holiday. If any legal holiday falls on Sunday,
the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.

(ORC 1.14)

​(4) When legislation is to take effect or become operative from and
after a day named, no part of that day shall be included.

(ORC 1.15)

​(5) In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time
or notice shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt
performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.

​(d) Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law
as well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall
be construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.

​(e) Joint Authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to
three or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as
giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons,
unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the
authority or inconsistent with State statute or Charter provisions.

​(f) Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law
which shall contain any express provision excluding such construction,
or when the subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant
thereto.
