220.02 COMPENSATION.
====================

​(a) Beginning January 1, 2008 and in accordance with the provisions of
Section [4.07](1368d53e.html) of the Charter of the City of Springboro,
every member elected or appointed to Council shall receive \$450.00 per
month for each calendar month during which he or she has served as a
sworn member of Council with an annual cost of living increase beginning
on January 1, 2009 and each year thereafter commensurate with the cost
of living adjustment as determined by City Council for all other City
employees.

​(b) Beginning January 1, 2008 and in accordance with the provisions of
Section [4.07](1368d53e.html) of the Charter of the City of Springboro,
the Mayor shall receive five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month for
each calendar month during which he or she has served as Mayor. The
Mayor shall receive an annual cost of living increase beginning on
January 1, 2009 and each year thereafter commensurate with the cost of
living adjustment as determined by City Council for all other City
employees.

​(c) Such compensation shall be paid by the Finance Director on a
monthly basis.

​(d) At any time that the Ohio Public Employee Retirement System adjusts
the minimum salary requirement to retain full service credit for elected
officials the City of Springboro shall be authorized to adjust the
compensation of all of its elected officials upon adoption of such
action by OPERS and without further action of this Council.

(Ord. 06-15. Passed 6-1-06.)
