---
layout: default 
title: 224.02 TRANSITION TO CHARTER MUNICIPALITY;
CONFLICTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Municipality of Springboro is hereby declared to be the legal
successor of the Village of Springboro, under the general laws of the
State, and as such it has title to all property, real, personal and
mixed, owned by its predecessor, including all moneys on deposit and all
taxes in process of collection, together with all accounts receivable
and rights of action, and is liable for all outstanding orders,
contracts and debts of its predecessor. If any office, board, commission
or department of the Village, as it existed under the laws of the State,
is abolished by the Charter, the powers and duties conferred on them
shall hereafter be exercised and discharged by the agencies and persons
with corresponding functions, duties and powers so far as is consistent
with the provisions of the Charter. All ordinances, resolutions and
other acts of the Village in effect at the time the Charter became
effective (January 1, 1979) shall remain in effect, except as superseded
by the Charter, until they are amended or repealed by Council or by the
electors as provided in Section[5.07](139e205d.html) of the Charter. In
the case of a conflict between an ordinance or resolution of Council and
a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, the provision of the ordinance or
resolution shall prevail, except in those areas where nonconformity with
State law is not permitted by the Ohio Constitution.

(Ord. 763. Passed 12-14-78.)
