---
layout: default
title: "230&#46;03  CONTRACTING AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) The Manager shall have authority to enter into contracts of less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for the purchase of equipment, supplies, materials, and nonprofessional services necessary or desirable for the operation of the City, to the extent that there are available funds within the applicable category of the annual appropriation ordinance, as amended. Whenever practicable the Manager may require two quotes for items purchased under this grouping of between fifteen ($15,000) to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).

(b) Contracts for the purchase of equipment, supplies, materials, and nonprofessional services of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or more shall be exempt from formal competitive bidding requirements, but shall require Council approval by ordinance or resolution. The Manager shall obtain two or more formal quotations for contracts of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or more to reasonably assure that the City is paying a fair price for its purchases. The Manager will make a contracting recommendation to the City Council ordinarily culminating in the recommendation of a lowest and best responsible quote. The above procedure shall operate in lieu of any statutory procedures for the selection of these providers.

(c) Contracts for professional services of less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) shall be exempt from formal bidding requirements. Such contracts shall not require competitive bidding, however, the Manager shall endeavor to obtain two or more informal quotations for contracts of less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) to reasonably assure that the City is paying a fair price for its purchases. The Manager must approve such contracts and shall have the authority to establish such additional procedures for selection and award of contracts, as he or she may deem advisable. This paragraph shall supersede any applicable statutory bidding requirements.

(d) Contracts for professional services of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or more shall be exempt from formal bidding requirements, but shall require Council approval by ordinance or resolution. In an effort to obtain the best value consistent with the City's needs, the selection of providers of professional services of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or more shall be preceded by the solicitation of two (2) or more written proposals which facilitate an evaluation of the extent, quality and cost of the services to be provided in a manner similar to Ohio's Design Professional Selection Law. (ORC 153.71) An analysis of the written proposals must be completed by the department director or Manager and will ordinarily culminate in the recommendation of a lowest and best responsible proposal. The Manager shall then make a contracting recommendation to the City Council. The above procedure shall operate in lieu of any statutory procedures for the selection of professional service providers.

(e) Council's review of proposed contracts shall include consideration of a recommendation by the Manager. The City reserves the right to waive defects in bids or proposals where such waiver is in the City's interest, and to reject any and all bids or proposals.

(f) Full compliance with Charter subsections [5.10](13adf2f6.html)(b) and (c) is mandatory for any contract to be formed pursuant to the above subsections (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e).

(g) Surplus tangible personal property of the City which is no longer needed for municipal purposes may be sold by the City Manager at public auction without approval of the Council, provided that the Council is given thirty days advance written notice of the items to be sold. (Ord. 03-6. Passed 1-16-03.)

(h) Equipment, supplies and/or materials purchased in an annual budget period that are approved via inclusion in the annual Capital Improvement Program review and approval process by Council; reviewed and approved by City Council in the annual budget approval process and approved by City Council within the annual Appropriation Ordinance approval process are exempt from presentation to City Council for approval via Resolution or Motion within that annual budget period provided all approvals are documented as outlined in this section, Form A and stated below. This form may be reproduced for ease of inclusion and attachment to each expenditure invoice of the City under the authority of this section.

**CITY OF SPRINGBORO**

**CODIFIED ORDINANCES; PART TWO: ADMINISTRATION CODE**

**TITLE 6 - CHAPTER [230.03](16f8dd03.html)(h)**

**CONTRACTING AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES**

DATE OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM APPROVAL INCLUDING ITEM: 

DATE OF ANNUAL BUDGET APPROVAL INCLUDING ITEM:  

DATE OF ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE APPROVAL INCLUDING ITEM: 

DATE OF APPROVAL FOR EXPENDITURE BY FINANCE DIRECTOR OR DESIGNEE: 

EXPENDITURE FOR CAPITAL ITEM(S) IN ANY GIVEN YEAR MAY ONLY BE GRANTED IF ALL PRIOR APPROVALS HAVE INCLUDED SUCH EXPENDITURE AND VERIFICATION OF FINANCE DIRECTOR OR DESIGNEED OCCURS. THIS FORM MUST BE COMPLETED AND ATTACHED TO INVOICE PRIOR TO PAYMENT.

ORDINANCE [230.03](171a725f.html)(h)    Form A

(Ord. 10-29. Passed 6-17-10.)