---
layout: default 
title: 238.05 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER UNIT.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Appointment of Members. There is hereby established within the
Division of Police a Part-Time Police Officer Unit, the members of which
shall be appointed by the Manager.

​(b) Term of Service. A part-time police officer shall serve so long as
the Manager may direct, or until a resignation submitted by such police
officer is accepted by the Manager.

​(c) Qualifications. The Manager shall prescribe the necessary
qualifications for members.

​(d) Control of Unit. The Chief of Police shall be the commanding
officer of the Unit and shall have control of the assignment, training,
stationing and direction of work of such Unit. The Unit will have all
police powers, but shall perform only such police duties as are assigned
by the Chief and shall act only when in the prescribed uniform or
portion thereof. The Chief shall prescribe the time and place such
uniform or portion thereof shall be worn. Such part-time police officers
shall obey the chain of command of the Division and shall take orders
from all regularly appointed members thereof.

​(e) Rules and Regulations. The Manager shall prescribe the rules and
regulations for the organization, administration, conduct and control of
the Unit.

​(f) Uniforms. The Manager is authorized to prescribe, by rules and
regulations, the type of uniform or part thereof which shall be worn by
members of the Unit.

​(g) Police and Fire Pension Fund. No member of the Unit is eligible for
membership in the Police and Fire Pension Fund.

(Ord. 00-22. Passed 4-6-00.)
