---
layout: default 
title: 240.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The Director of Service shall:

​(a) Manage, conduct and control all public utilities.

​(b) Collect all utility charges.

​(c) Make such bylaws and regulations as he or she deems necessary for
the safe, economical and efficient management and protection of utility
plants and works. Such bylaws and regulations shall have the validity of
ordinances when not repugnant to ordinances or resolutions of the
Municipality, the State Constitution or laws of the State.

​(d) Have the same powers and perform the same duties as provided in
Ohio R.C. 743.05 through 743.07, 743.10, 743.11, 743.18 and 743.24, and
all powers and duties relative to water works in any such sections shall
extend to and include all public utilities as set forth in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 735.

​(e) Supervise the improvement and repair of streets, avenues, alleys,
lands, lanes, squares, bridges, sidewalks, sewers, drains, ditches,
culverts, streams and watercourses, as well as the lighting, sprinkling
and cleaning of all streets, alleys and public buildings and places.

​(f) Have jurisdiction over the water and sewerage systems, refuse
collection, permits and inspections and the general maintenance of
Municipal lands and buildings.

​(g) Be directly responsible for the water, sewer and garbage records
system of the Municipality.

​(h) Have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by
ordinance, resolution or law and which are not inconsistent with this
section or Ohio R.C. Chapter 735.

​(i) Perform all the duties and have all the powers of boards of public
affairs and street commissioners, as prescribed by law; and

​(j) Have the authority to delegate any such powers or duties to other
persons, as he or she deems necessary.
