---
layout: default 
title: 240.03 DIVISION OF MAINTENANCE; PUBLIC WORKS;
BUILDING REGULATION; AND ENGINEERING.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Division of Maintenance.

​(1) Section of Streets. The Director of Service, or his designee, shall
be the head of the Section of Streets within the Department of Service.
All matters relating to the maintenance, repair and paving of streets
and related facilities shall be under the jurisdiction of this Section.

​(2) Section of Water. The Director of Service, or his designee, shall
be the head of the Section of Water, within the Department of Service.
All matters related to maintenance and repair of water lines and
facilities shall be under the jurisdiction of this Section.

​(3) Section of Sewers. The Director of Service, or his designee, shall
be the head of the Section of Sewers, within the Department of Service.
All matters relating to maintenance and repair of sewers and sewer
facilities shall be under the jurisdiction of this Section.

​(4) Section of Utility Plant Operations. The Springboro Section of
Utility Plant Operations is hereby established. The Director of Service,
or his designee, shall be the head of the Section of Utility Plant
Operations, within the Department of Service. All matters related to
utility plant operations shall be under the jurisdiction of this
Section.

​(5) Section of Park Maintenance. The Springboro Section of Park
Maintenance is hereby established. The Director of Service, or his
designee, shall be the head of the Section of Park Maintenance, within
the Department of Service. All matters related to park maintenance shall
be under the jurisdiction of this Section.

​(b) Division of Public Works. The Director of Service, or his designee,
shall be the head of the Division of Public Works, within the Department
of Service. All matters related to construction of streets, public
utilities and public facilities shall be under the jurisdiction of this
Division, unless otherwise determined by the City Manager.

​(c) Division of Building Regulation. The Springboro Division of
Building Regulation is hereby established.

The Director of Service, or his designee, shall be the head of the
Division of Building Regulation, within the Department of Service. All
matters related to building regulation shall be under the jurisdiction
of this Division, unless otherwise determined by the City Manager.

Such Division shall have full authority to enforce all laws, statutes
and regulations as provided and authorized in the Ohio Revised Code and
the Ohio Administrative Code pursuant to the certification approved by
the Ohio Board of Building Standards.

​(d) Division of Engineering. The Springboro Division of Engineering is
hereby established.

The Director of Service, or his designee, shall be the head of the
Division of Engineering, within the Department of Service. All matters
related to engineering shall be under the jurisdiction of this Division,
unless otherwise determined by the City Manager.

(Ord. 00-22. Passed 4-6-00.)
