---
layout: default 
title: 280.03 PERMITS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Any party desiring to remove a Protected Tree shall first obtain a
tree removal Permit from the City of Springboro.

​(1) Permit fee.

A. The cost of a permit will depend on the number of Protected Trees to
be removed. Permit Fees shall be calculated as follows:

​1. Twenty-five dollars (\$25.00) to remove up to ten trees.

​2. One hundred dollars (\$100.00) for up to fifty trees.

​3. Two hundred dollars (\$200.00) for up to 100 trees.

​4. Five hundred dollars (\$500.00) for more than 100 trees.

B. The following trees shall be considered "Exempted Trees," with no
permit required for their removal:

​1. Diseased trees.

​2. Trees that constitute a threat to public health or safety.

​3. Trees within any area specified within Section
[280.04](195864b1.html)(d).

​(2) Replacement certification. Any party desiring to remove a tree must
certify as part of an application for a tree removal permit that they
will comply with the requirements of Chapter [280.04](190dab57.html).

​(3) Any party desiring to be released from the requirements of Section
[280.03](1943696f.html)(a)(4).

​(4) The City may require applicants for the subdivision of real
property to guarantee the tree replacement obligation hereunder by a
performance bond.

​(5) Permit fees, replacement payments, fines and penalties will be
deposited into a Tree Preservation Account:

A. Separate from the General Fund.

B. Monies to be used only for tree planting and maintenance on public
property.

C. Use of fund to be determined by City Manager.

(Ord. 95-61. Passed 11-2-95.)
