---
layout: default 
title: 280.04 SPECIFIC REMOVAL CONTROLS AND REPLACEMENT
REQUIREMENTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Each Protected Tree removed must be replaced on-site or at an
off-site location approved by the City Manager by a tree with at least
two and one-half inches DBH. Replacement shall be made within six months
of removal, or at such later time as may be approved by the City Manager
as a result of special circumstances, at the expense of the applicant.
Replacement trees shall be selected from the list below:

​(1) Large trees.

Red Maple

Hackberry

Sugar Maple

Basswood

Silver Maple

Green Ash

Buckeye

Honey Locust

Shagbark Hickory

American Locust

White Ash

Norway Maple

Black Walnut

Japanese Flowering Cherry

Butternut

Southern Magnolia

Bitternut Hickory

Sweetgum

White Oak

Dawn Redwood

Burr Oak

London Planetree

Chokeberry

Douglas Fir

Black Cherry

White Spruce

Aspens

Austrian Pine

Red Pine

Scotch Pine

Balsam Fir

​(2) Small trees.

Eastern Redbud

Golden Rain Tree

Dogwood

Japanese Tree Lilac

Crabapple

Bradford Pear

Ironwood

Aristocrat Pear

Apricot

Amur Maple

Pin Cherry

Flowering Crabapple

Mountain Ash

Smoke Tree

Purpleleaf Plum

Hardy Almond

European Larch

Ponderosa Pine

​(b) Any replacement which dies or is removed within one year from the
date of planting shall be replaced with an equivalent tree at two and
one-half DBH or larger, of a type specified in subsection (a) hereof at
the sole cost of its owner. This mandates only a one-time replanting for
any replacement tree.

​(c) Trees that are designated Monarch Trees may not be removed without
prior approval of the Tree Authority, and issuance of a permit.

​(d) Protected Trees located within the following areas shall not have
to be replaced:

​(1) Areas of street construction and necessary associated slope
construction.

​(2) Public rights-of-way or utility easements.

A. Includes areas for utility line installation and construction
easements necessary for such installation.

B. Includes easements for maintenance access.

​(3) Footprint area of buildings and ancillary structures, plus twenty
feet on all sides of buildings and structures to permit construction
activity.

​(4) Land area necessary for installation of the following:

A. Driveways

B. Alleys

C. Walkways

​(5) Area for septic field as required by the Health Department.

​(6) Ponds.

A. Only the area necessary for the construction of the dam and the area
necessary for construction and maintenance of the pond shall be cleared
of vegetation.

B. Configuration of the pond shall blend into natural terrain

​(e) Trees removed twelve months before the application for a building
permit, change of zoning or approval of a subdivision must be replaced
or guaranteed to be replaced in a manner acceptable to the Tree
Authority before any permits or approvals are issued by the City
relating to the property.

​(f) Factors to be considered by owner in replacement tree selection:

​(1) Longevity.

​(2) Suitability to soils and climate (indigenous species preferred).

​(3) Aesthetic value:

A. Seasonal coloration.

B Shape and size at maturity.

C. Low incidence of exfoliation bark, branch drop, and need for pruning.

D. Encouragement of wildlife residence.

E. Resistance to insects and disease.

F. Flowers and fruit on appropriate sites.

(Ord. 95-61. Passed 11-2-95.)
