---
layout: default 
title: 280.041 STREET TREES AND PLANTING ZONES.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Street Tree Planting Zones.

​(1) There are four designate zones for planting street trees within the
right-of- way:

A. Curbside. Located between a detached sidewalk and the curb; commonly
known as the tree lawn. At least six feet are needed if trees are to be
planted; wider spaces are preferred. Trees should be centered in the
Tree Lawn.

B. Boundary. Located behind a sidewalk between the right-of-way line and
the sidewalk. Street trees must be planted at least three feet from the
sidewalk.

C. Sidewalk. The open section of a sidewalk where the walk extends from
the curb to the building. The walk must be wide enough to allow the tree
to be set back at least three feet from the face of the curb and five
feet from the building.

D. Undefined. Located in areas that do not have a sidewalk. The location
of trees should anticipate the future installation of a sidewalk. Street
trees planted in undefined areas should be centered between the back of
the curb and an imaginary line parallel to the right-of-way line and
three feet within the right-of-way.

​(b) Only the following trees may be planted in the Street Tree planting
zones identified above:

​(1) Must be planted thirty-five feet apart.

Sugar Maple

Green Ash

Shagbark Hickory

Honey Locust

Hackberry

American Linden

Sweetgum

Dawn Redwood

White Ash

Norway Maple

Douglas Fir

White Oak

Burr Oak

White Spruce

Basswood

Austrian Pine

​(2) Must be planted thirty feet apart.

Red Maple

Bradford Pear

Ironwood

Aristocrat Pear

Buckeye

Redbud

Chokeberry

Larch

Golden Rain Tree

White Spruce

​(3) Must be planted twenty-five feet apart.

Flowering Crabapple

Eastern Redbud

Amur Maple

Purpleleaf Plum

Smoke Tree

​(c) Street Tree Design Objectives. The design of street trees shall not
obstruct the safe vision of pedestrians and street traffic and should:

​(1) Reinforce spatial quality, not just provide arbitrary diversity.

​(2) Help organize architectural space.

​(3) Reinforce the lineal form of streets.

​(4) Enhance urban elements, not hide them.

​(5) Have trunks rising from an uncluttered ground form.

​(6) Provide symbolic significance, where possible.

​(7) Reinforce good architecture.

​(8) Improve connections between indoor and outdoor space.

​(9) Provide visual and aesthetic relief.

(Ord. 95-61. Passed 11-2-95.)
