280.05 THE TREE AUTHORITY.
==========================

​(a) A Tree Authority for the City of Springboro, Ohio is hereby
established. Said Tree Authority shall be composed of five residents of
the City appointed by the City Council, one of which shall be a Council
member.

​(b) The Tree Authority shall regularly meet once monthly, unless the
chairperson determines that no business is available to be conducted. A
majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. A majority of a quorum shall be sufficient to decide any
matter before the Tree Authority.

​(c) Prior to January 31 of each year, the Tree Authority shall meet and
elect a member to serve as Chairperson of the Tree Authority. The
Chairperson shall have the authority to call and conduct, or cancel,
meetings of the Tree Authority, and to receive correspondence and other
materials on behalf of the Tree Authority.

​(d) It is recommended that at least one of the non-Council members be
experienced in landscaping, or have extensive knowledge of shade trees.
However, such member shall not be engaged or employed in a business
which sells or plants trees in the Springboro community.

​(e) The terms of the four resident members shall be for three years,
except that to achieve overlapping of terms, those first appointed shall
serve as follows: one for one year, one for two years, and two for three
years. The term of the Council member shall be one year. When a vacancy
occurs during the term of any member, the successor shall be appointed
for the unexpired term.

​(f) The members of the Tree Authority shall serve without compensation.

​(g) The Tree Authority shall have the following authority:

​(1) To study, investigate, plan, devise, and recommend to Council any
action, program, plan or legislation which the Tree Authority shall
determine to be necessary or advisable for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of trees or
shrubs in public ways, streets, alleys, parks, or other property owned
by the City of Springboro.

​(2) To regulate the planting, maintenance and removal of trees and
shrubs on City property and rights-of-way, to ensure safety and promote
aesthetics.

​(3) To appoint its own officers and committees, to make its own
procedural rules, and to keep an appropriate record of its proceedings.

​(4) To recommend to City Council the designation of any tree as a
Monarch Tree. To approve the removal of any tree that has been
identified as a threat to public health or safety.

​(5) To interpret the language of this chapter and determine its
applicability to particular situations.

​(6) To consider, investigate, make findings, and recommend upon any
special matter or question coming within the scope of its authority,
upon request by the Mayor, Council or City Manager.

​(7) To perform other responsibilities as may be from time to time
prescribed by Council action.

(Ord. 95-61. Passed 11-2-95; Ord. 00-23. Passed 4-6-00.)
