CHAPTER 290 Mayor's Court
=========================

EDITOR'S NOTE: Ohio R. C. 1905.01 provides that the Mayor of Springboro
has jurisdiction to hear and determine any prosecution for the violation
of a Springboro ordinance, and has jurisdiction in all criminal causes
involving moving traffic violations occurring on State highways located
within the corporate limits of Springboro, subject to the limitations of
Ohio R.C. 2937.08 and 2938.04. In keeping his docket and file, the Mayor
shall be governed by the laws pertaining to county courts.

Ohio R.C. 2937.08 provides that if the court in which a defendant is
charged with an offense is not a court of record (the Mayor's Court),
and the charge is such that a right to a jury trial exists, such matter
shall not be tried before him unless the accused, by writing subscribed
by him, waives a jury and consents to be tried by the magistrate. If the
defendant, in such event, does not waive his or her right to a jury
trial, then the magistrate shall require the accused to enter into a
recognizance to appear before a court of record in Warren County and the
magistrate shall thereupon certify all papers filed, together with a
transcript of proceedings and accrued costs to date, and such
recognizance, if given, to the court of record. However, Rule 23(A) of
the Ohio Rules of Criminal Procedure provides that in petty offense
cases, where there is a right to jury trial, the defendant shall be
tried by the court unless he demands a jury trial. But the jurisdiction
of a Mayor's Court, in such cases, is further limited by Rule 9 of the
Ohio Traffic Rules, which provides that if a jury demand is not made
pursuant to Criminal Rule 23, and the defendant waives his right to jury
trial in writing, a mayor may try the case only if (1) his compensation
as a judge is not directly dependent upon criminal case convictions, or
(2) he is not the chief executive and administrative officer of the
municipality and as such responsible for the financial condition of the
municipality. Guilty and no contest pleas may be taken by any mayor.

Ohio R.C. 1901.24 and 2938.04 provide that the right to trial by jury
shall be claimed by making demand in writing therefor and filing the
same with the clerk of the court of record not less than three days
prior to the date set for trial or on or before the day following
receipt of notice of the date set for trial, whichever is later.
However, Rule 23(A) of the Ohio Rules of Criminal Procedure, which
presumptively supersedes Ohio R.C. 2938.04, provides that right to trial
by jury shall be claimed by making demand in writing therefor and filing
the same with the clerk of court not less than ten days prior to the
date set for trial, or on or before the third day following receipt of
notice of the date set for trial, whichever is later. Failure to claim a
jury trial as provided herein is a complete waiver of the right thereto.
Ohio R.C. 2938.04 provides, further, that a jury trial may not be had in
courts not of record, but failure to waive a jury in writing where the
right to a jury trial may be asserted shall require the magistrate to
certify such case to a court of record as provided in Ohio R.C. 2937.08.

Ohio R.C. 2945.17 provides that an accused has a right to be tried by a
jury at any trial in any court for the violation of any Ohio statute or
of any Springboro ordinance, except in cases in which the penalty
involved does not exceed a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).

The Supreme Court of Ohio, on December 4, 1967, promulgated "Rules of
Practice and Procedure in Traffic Cases For All Courts Inferior to
Common Pleas," the adoption of which became mandatory prior to March 2,
1969. Amended Rules, referred to as the Ohio Traffic Rules, became
effective on January 1, 1975.
[**290.01**](1b01adbe.html)**Dispatcher-Clerk.**
[**290.02**](1b05687c.html)**Court costs.**
[**290.03**](1b0d205e.html)**Mayor's Court Improvement Fund.**

CROSS REFERENCES

Magistrate - see CHTR. Sec. [13.14](14eb4ffb.html)

Mayor's court jurisdiction - see Ohio R.C. 1905.01 et seq.

Mayor's powers and duties - see Ohio R.C. 1905.20 et seq.

Contempt of court - see Ohio R.C. 1905.28, 1907.171 et seq., 2935.11

Peace and search warrants -see Ohio R.C. Ch. 2933

Detection and arrest - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 2935

Preliminary examination; bail - see Ohio R.C. Ch. 2937

Notification to Director of liquor law convictions - see Ohio R.C.
4301.991

Record of traffic violations - see Ohio R.C. 4513.37

Mayor - see ADM. Ch. [222](16b9e54b.html)
