---
layout: default 
title: "402&#46;17 INTERSECTION."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

"Intersection" means:

​(a) The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways that join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways that join at any other angle might come into conflict. The
junction of an alley or driveway with a roadway or highway does not
constitute an intersection unless the roadway or highway at the junction
is controlled by a traffic control device.

​(b) If a highway includes two roadways that are thirty feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both
intersecting highways include two roadways thirty feet or more apart,
then every crossing of any two roadways of such highways constitutes a
separate intersection.

​(c) At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in
subsection (b) of this section:

​(1) If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated on
the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the
two intersections and the roadway and median constitute one
intersection.

​(2) Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk
and any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute
part of the intersection.

​(3) Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure from
the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk. (ORC 4511.01(KK))
