402.27 PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
=============================

"Public safety vehicle" means any of the following:

​(a) Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipal corporation, township or county and private ambulances and
transport vehicles bearing license plates issued under Ohio R.C.
4503.49;

​(b) Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the State or
the Municipality;

​(c) Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls
or to provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and
when operated by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer
rescue service or a volunteer fire department, and who is on duty
pursuant to the rules or directives of that service. The Ohio Fire
Marshal shall be designated by the Ohio Director of Public Safety as the
certifying agency for all public safety vehicles described in this
subsection (c);

​(d) Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer fire fighters responding to emergency calls in the
fire department service when identified as required by the Ohio Director
of Public Safety.

Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service to an
ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered a public safety vehicle when transporting an ill or
injured person to a hospital regardless of whether such vehicle has
already passed a hospital.

(ORC 4511.01(E))

​(e) Vehicles used by the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Enforcement
Unit for the enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities
Commission as specified in Ohio R.C. 5503.34.
