---
layout: default 
title: 402.35 SCHOOL BUS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

"School bus" means every bus designed for carrying more than nine
passengers that is owned by a public, private or governmental agency or
institution of learning and operated for the transportation of children
to or from a school session or a school function, or owned by a private
person and operated for compensation for the transportation of children
to or from a school session or a school function; provided "school bus"
does not include a bus operated by a municipally owned transportation
system, a mass transit company operating exclusively within the
territorial limits of the Municipality, or within such limits and the
territorial limits of municipal corporations immediately contiguous to
the Municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless such bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school
function, and "school bus" does not include a van or bus used by a
licensed child day-care center or type A family day-care home to
transport children from the child day-care center or type A family
day-care home to a school if the van or bus does not have more than
fifteen children in the van or bus at any time. "Child day-care center"
and "type A family day-care home" have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
5104.01. (ORC 4511.01(F), (FFF))
