---
layout: default
title: "CHAPTER 404 Enforcement, Impounding and Penalty"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

[**404.01**](1ca7262d.html)**Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing.**

[**404.02**](1cb4dd34.html)**Resisting an enforcing official.**

[**404.03**](1cbae04a.html)**Road workers, motor vehicles and equipment excepted.**

[**404.04**](1cbef315.html)**Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway.**

[**404.041**](1cc172bf.html)**Emergency, public safety and coroner's vehicles exempt.**

[**404.05**](1cc68a71.html)**Impounding of vehicles; redemption.**

[**404.06**](1cd9f461.html)**Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guards.**

[**404.07**](1ce09195.html)**Application to drivers of government vehicles.**

[**404.08**](1ce31c4f.html)**Providing false information to police officer.**

[**404.99**](1ce9ca02.html)**Penalty.**

CROSS REFERENCES

See sectional histories for similar State law

Disposition of unclaimed vehicles - see Ohio R.C. 737.32, 4513.62 et seq.

Citations for minor misdemeanors - see Ohio R.C. 2935.26 et seq.

Power of trial court of record to suspend or revoke license for certain violations - see Ohio R.C. 4507.16, 4507.34

State point system suspension - see Ohio R.C. 4507.40

Uniform application of Ohio Traffic Law - see Ohio R.C. 4511.06

Marking motor vehicles used by traffic officers - see Ohio R.C. 4549.13

Distinctive uniform required for traffic officers - see Ohio 

R.C. 4549.15

Parking violations waiver - see TRAF. [452.20](2769da87.html)

Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles - see 

TRAF. [474.10](280ad186.html)

Limitation on criminal prosecutions - see GEN. OFF. [606.06](29509af1.html)

Failure to aid a law enforcement officer - see GEN. OFF. [606.13](29df0141.html)

Obstructing official business - see GEN. OFF. [606.14](29e547ec.html)

Obstructing justice - see GEN. OFF. [606.15](29eb189f.html)

Resisting arrest - see GEN. OFF. [606.16](29fede57.html)

Soliciting or receiving improper compensation - see GEN. OFF. [606.18](2a256468.html)

Dereliction of duty - see GEN. OFF. [606.19](2a394a63.html)

Disposition of property held by Police Department - see GEN. OFF. [606.24](2a90d4dc.html)