---
layout: default 
title: "412&#46;01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET&#46;"---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a street,
highway or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other
articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal
traveling along or upon such street, except such substances that may be
placed upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or
construction thereof.

​(b) Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street any noxious, destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same.

​(c) Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
street shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon
the street from such vehicle.

​(d) No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a street without
proper authority.

​(e) No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane,
road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other
articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal
traveling along or upon such highway, except such substances that may be
placed upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or
construction thereof.

​(f) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
violates any provision of subsections (a) to (d) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates any
provision of subsections (a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
subsections (a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.

​(2) Whoever violates subsection (e) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 4511.74)
