---
layout: default 
title: 412.05 FREEWAY USE PROHIBITED BY PEDESTRIANS,
BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:

​(1) As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the
right-of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is
separated from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed
and appropriately marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of
public works or official duties; as a result of an emergency caused by
an accident or breakdown of a motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;

​(2) Occupy any space within the limits of the right of way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded
animals; a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and
appropriately marked for bicycle use; a bicycle with motor attached; a
motor driven cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake
horsepower; an agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the
performance of public works or official duties.

​(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.051)
