---
layout: default 
title: 414.02 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) All State routes are hereby designated as through streets or
highways, provided that stop signs, yield signs or traffic control
signals shall be erected at all intersections with such through streets
or highways, except as otherwise provided in this section. Where two or
more State routes that are through streets or highways intersect and no
traffic control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Ohio Department of
Transportation, except as otherwise provided in this section.

Whenever the Ohio Director of Transportation determines on the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary
to stop traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation,
nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent such
installations. When circumstances warrant, the Director also may omit
stop signs on roadways intersecting through highways under his
jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or removes a stop sign
under this paragraph, he shall give notice, in writing, of that proposed
action to the Municipality at least thirty days before installing or
removing the stop sign.

​(b) Other streets or highways or portions thereof, are hereby
designated through streets or highways, if they are within the
Municipality, if they have a continuous length of more than one mile
between the limits of such street or highway or portion thereof, and if
they have "stop" or "yield" signs or traffic control signals at the
entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or highways. For
purposes of this section, the limits of such street or highway or
portion thereof, shall be a municipal corporation line, the physical
terminus of the street or highway or any point on such street or highway
at which vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to
stop or yield to traffic on the intersecting street, provided that in
residence districts the Municipality may by ordinance designate such
street or highway, or portion thereof, not to be a through highway and
thereafter the affected residence district shall be indicated by
official traffic control devices. Where two or more streets or highways
designated under this subsection (b) intersect and no traffic control
signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Ohio Department of Transportation
or by Council or the authorized local authority, except as otherwise
provided in this section.

​(c) Stop signs need not be erected at intersections so constructed as
to permit traffic to safely enter a through street or highway without
coming to a stop. Signs shall be erected at such intersections
indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall yield the right of way
to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through street or
highway.

​(d) Council or the authorized local authority may designate additional
through streets or highways and shall erect stop signs, yield signs or
traffic control signals at all streets and highways intersecting such
through streets or highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection and shall erect like signs at one or more
entrances to such intersection. (ORC 4511.65)
