---
layout: default 
title: "414.03 TRAFFIC SIGNAL INDICATIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles, and pedestrians shall
have the following meanings:

​(a) Steady Green Signal Indication:

​(1) A. Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication is
permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left, or make a
u-turn movement except as such movement is modified by a lane- use sign,
turn prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn
signal indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular
traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn
movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:

​1. Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;

​2. Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.

B. In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
approaching from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time when such turning vehicle is moving
across or within the intersection.

​(2) Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by
such arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications
displayed at the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles
turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:

A. Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk.

B. Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.

​(3) A. Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication, as
provided in Section [414.05](1dde9226.html), pedestrians facing a
circular green signal indication are permitted to proceed across the
roadway within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. The
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the
intersection or so close as to create an immediate hazard at the time
that the green signal indication is first displayed.

B. Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.

​(b) Steady Yellow Signal Indication:

​(1) Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related
flashing arrow movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal
indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular
traffic shall not enter the intersection. The provisions governing
vehicular operation under the movement being terminated shall continue
to apply while the steady circular yellow signal indication is
displayed.

​(2) Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related
flashing arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing
vehicular operation under the movement being terminated shall continue
to apply while the steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.

​(3) Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication
as provided in Section [414.05](1dde9226.html) or other traffic control
device, shall not start to cross the roadway.

​(c) Steady Red Signal Indication:

​(1) A. Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement
permitted by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line; but if there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection; or if there
is no crosswalk, before then before entering the intersection; and shall
remain stopped until a signal indication to proceed is displayed except
as provided in subsections (c)(1), (2) and (3) of this section.

B. Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a turn
on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted to
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way
street, after stopping. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.

​(2) A. Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the
arrow and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement
permitted by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a
signal indication or other traffic control device permitting the
movement indicated by such red arrow is displayed.

B. When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady
red arrow indication is permitted to enter the intersection to make the
movement indicated by the arrow signal indication, after stopping. The
right to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction
indicated by the arrow, and shall be subject to the provisions that are
applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.

​(3) Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Section [414.05](1dde9226.html) or other traffic control
device, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or steady red arrow
signal indication shall not enter the roadway.

​(4) Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on State highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady
red signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs
giving notice thereof are posted at the intersection.

​(d) Flashing Green Signal Indication. A flashing green signal
indication has no meaning and shall not be used.

​(e) Flashing Yellow Signal Indication:

​(1) A. Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously
enter the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left
or make a u-turn movement except as such movement is modified by
lane-use signs, turn prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design,
separate turn signal indications, or other traffic control devices. Such
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or making a
u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:

​1. Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;

​2. Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.

B. In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to the
left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.

​(2) A. Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in
combination with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously
enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or other such movement as is permitted by other signal
indications displayed at the same time. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn, shall yield
the right-of-way to both of the following:

​1. Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;

​2. Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.

B. In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to the
left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.

​(3) Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal
indication or other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed
across the roadway within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the
intersection at the time that the flashing yellow signal indication is
first displayed.

​(4) When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are
notified that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message
contained thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the
other traffic control device, which might not be applicable at all
times, are currently applicable.

​(f) Flashing Red Signal Indication:

​(1) Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at
the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. The right to proceed shall be subject to the provisions
that are applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.

​(2) Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal
indication or other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed
across the roadway within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk.
Pedestrians shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the
intersection at the time that the flashing red signal indication is
first displayed.

​(3) When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are
notified that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message
contained thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other
traffic control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are
currently applicable. Use of this signal indication shall be limited to
supplementing stop, do not enter, or wrong way signs, and to
applications where compliance with the supplemented traffic control
device requires a stop at a designated point.

​(g) General Application: In the event an official traffic-control
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection,
the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those
provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating
where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or
marking the stop shall be made at the signal.

​(h) Exception. This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
Conduct of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings
shall be governed by Ohio R.C. 4511.61 and 4511.62. (ORC 4511.13)
