---
layout: default
title: "414&#46;04  LANE-USE CONTROL SIGNAL INDICATIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:

(1) A steady downward green arrow: A road user is permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.

(2) A steady yellow "X": A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being made to a steady red "X" signal indication.

(3) A steady white two-way left-turn arrow: A road user is permitted to use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.

(4) A steady white one-way left-turn arrow: A road user is permitted to use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.

(5) A steady red "X": A road user is not permitted to use the lane over which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.

  (ORC 4511.131)

(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.

(ORC 4511.99)