---
layout: default 
title: 414.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports
to be, is an imitation of or resembles a traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person
shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit upon any
street any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising. This section does not prohibit either the erection upon
private property adjacent to streets of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic control
devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with Ohio R.C.
4511.211 and 4511.432.

Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the Police Chief is authorized to remove it or cause it to
be removed.

​(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.16)
