---
layout: default 
title: "414&#46;08 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:

​(1) Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic control device, any railroad sign or signal, or
any inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal, or
any part of the device, sign or signal;

​(2) Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other
devices intended to protect it;

​(3) Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.

​(b) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever
violates subsection (a)(1) or (3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If a violation of subsection (a)(1) or
(3) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the
offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation
of subsection (a)(1) or (3) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property that is owned, leased, or controlled by a state or local
authority, the offender is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.

​(2) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates subsection (a)(2) of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.

(ORC 4511.17)
