---
layout: default 
title: "416&#46;01 RIGHT OF WAY IN CROSSWALK."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) When traffic control signals are not in place, not in operation or
are not clearly assigning the right of way, the driver of a vehicle
shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so
yield or if required by Section [414.09](1dfd512e.html), to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the
half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger.

​(b) No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.

​(c) Subsection (a) hereof does not apply under the conditions stated in
Section [416.03](1e5325f0.html)(b).

​(d) Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross
the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear
shall not overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.

​(e) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.46)
