416.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK; DIAGONAL CROSSINGS AT INTERSECTIONS.
===============================================================================

​(a) Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within
a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection
shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.

​(b) Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the
right of way to all traffic upon the roadway.

​(c) Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a
marked crosswalk.

​(d) No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to
cross diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the
official traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.

​(e) This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway.

​(f) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.48)
