---
layout: default 
title: "432&#46;07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Hazardous zones, commonly called "no passing zones," shall consist
of an auxiliary yellow line marked on the roadway pavement and placed
parallel to the normal center line or marked lane line. When the
auxiliary yellow line appears on the left side in the driver's lane of
travel and to the right of the normal center line or marked lane line,
no driver shall drive across the auxiliary yellow line to overtake and
pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction. When auxiliary
yellow lines appear on both sides of the normal center line or marked
lane line, drivers proceeding in either direction shall not drive across
such auxiliary yellow lines to overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction. No driver shall, at any other time,
drive across the yellow auxiliary line when it appears in the driver's
lane of travel, except to make a lawfully permitted left-hand turn under
the rules governing such movement. No passing signs may also be erected
facing traffic to indicate the beginning and end of each no passing
zone.

When appropriate signs or markings indicating hazardous or no passing
zones are in place and clearly visible, every operator of a vehicle
shall obey the directions of the signs or markings, notwithstanding the
distance set out in Section [432.06.](1f40e779.html)

​(b) Subsection (a) of this section does not apply when all of the
following apply:

​(1) The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.

​(2) The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.

​(3) There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing
provisions of Section [432.05](1f3ad4ca.html), considering the speed of
the slower vehicle.

​(c) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.31)
