---
layout: default 
title: "432&#46;08 DRIVING WITHIN LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic or wherever traffic is lawfully moving in two
or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:

​(1) A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from such
lane or line until the driver has first ascertained that such movement
can be made with safety.

​(2) Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the
roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic
within a safe distance, or when preparing for a left turn, or where such
center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in
the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is posted with signs to give
notice of such allocation.

​(3) Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving
in a particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, or
restricting the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain
hours or during all hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of such signs.

​(4) Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall
obey the directions of every such device.

​(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.33)
