---
layout: default 
title: "432.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the
speed of such vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the
highway.

The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle, when
traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between such
vehicle and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may
enter and occupy such space without danger. This paragraph does not
prevent overtaking and passing nor does it apply to any lane specially
designated for use by trucks.

Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, shall maintain a
sufficient space between such vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may
enter and occupy such space without danger. This paragraph shall not
apply to funeral processions.

​(b) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.34)
