---
layout: default 
title: 432.17 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP AND YIELD
SIGNS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to
a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or,
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield
the right of way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on
another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during
the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection or
junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a collision with
a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after driving
past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima-facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield the right of way.

​(b) Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic
on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After having stopped,
the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving
across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.

​(c) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.13)
