---
layout: default 
title: "432.20 RIGHT OF WAY AT PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from
any place other than another roadway shall yield the right of way to all
traffic approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed. (ORC
4511.44)

​(b) The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance, road or
driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon.

(ORC 4511.431)

​(c) The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be
governed by the following rules:

​(1) Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.

​(2) Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion
of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.

​(3) Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the left- hand curb or edge of the roadway.

It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
roadway or driveway, alley or building to yield the right of way to
pedestrians lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending
across the private road or driveway, alley or building.

​(d) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
