---
layout: default 
title: "432&#46;21 RIGHT OF WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSION."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) As used in this section "funeral procession" means two or more
vehicles accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased
person in the daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights
lighted and is displaying a purple and white or an orange and white
pennant attached to each vehicle in such a manner as to be clearly
visible to traffic approaching from any direction.

​(b) Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with
Section [432.21](1fce9f78.html) or when directed otherwise by a police
officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles shall yield the
right of way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral procession.
Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters an
intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may
continue to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection
notwithstanding any traffic control devices or right-of-way provisions
of this Traffic Code, provided that the operator of each vehicle
exercises due care to avoid colliding with any other vehicle or
pedestrian.

​(c) No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral
procession without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and
without displaying a purple and white or an orange and white pennant in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.

​(d) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.

(ORC 4511.451)
