432.31 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
======================================

​(a) (1) Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within fifty feet, but not less
than fifteen feet from the nearest rail of the railroad, if any of the
following circumstances exist at the crossing:

A. A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a train.

B. A crossing gate is lowered.

C. A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach or
passage of a train.

D. There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad grade
crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad
trains, notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to
proceed.

E. An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.

F. There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely negotiate the
crossing.

​(2) A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances
described in divisions (a)(1)A. to F. of this section exist at the
crossing.

​(b) No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed unless the person is
signaled by a law enforcement officer or flagperson that it is
permissible to do so.

​(c) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.

(ORC 4511.62)
