---
layout: default
title: "434&#46;02  RECKLESS OPERATION ON STREETS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property. 

(ORC 4511.20)

(b) No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private property other than streets or highways, in willful or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.

This subsection does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property knowingly permits such operation thereon.

(Ord. 03-39. Passed 8-7-03.)

(c) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.

(ORC 4511.201)

(d) Whenever a person is found guilty under this section of operating a motor vehicle in violation of this section relating to reckless operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(5) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02.

(ORC 4510.15)