---
layout: default
title: "434&#46;03 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS; ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed than will permit the person to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.

(b) It is prima-facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or established pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21 by the Ohio Director of Transportation or Council, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed not exceeding the following:

(1) A. Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours, and when twenty miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected; except, that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by subsection (b)(4) hereof and on freeways, if the right-of-way line fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by subsection (b)(7) hereof. The end of every school zone may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section or in the manual and specifications for a uniform system of traffic control devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.

  B. As used in this section, &quot;school&quot; means any school chartered under Ohio R.C. 3301.16 and any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed with the Department of Education in compliance with rule 3301-35-08 of the Ohio Administrative Code, a copy of the school's report for the parents of the school's pupils certifying that the school meets Ohio minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school zone.

  C. As used in this section, &quot;school zone&quot; means that portion of a street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or highway. Upon request from the Municipality for streets and highways under its jurisdiction, the Ohio Director of Transportation may extend the traditional school zone boundaries. The distances in subsections (b)(1)C.1. to 3. hereof shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction and are bounded by whichever of the following distances or combinations thereof the Director approves as most appropriate:

   1. The distance encompassed by projecting the school building lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on each approach direction;

   2. The distance encompassed by projecting the school property lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on each approach direction;

   3. The distance encompassed by the special marking of the pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on each approach direction of highway;

Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the Director's initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in subsections (b)(1)A. and C. hereof.

  D. As used in this subsection, &quot;crosswalk&quot; has the meaning given that term in Section [402.10 ](1bb79d6d.html) The Director may, upon request by resolution of Council, and upon submission by the Municipality of such engineering, traffic and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school zone on any portion of a State route lying within the Municipality that includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the nearest point of the crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet on each approach direction of the State route;

(2) Twenty-five miles per hour on South Main Street between Central Avenue (S.R. 741) and Mill Street, and in all other portions of the Municipality, except on State routes outside business districts, through streets and through highways outside business districts, and alleys;

  (Ord. 88-79. Passed 11-3-88.)

(3) Thirty-five miles per hour on Lytle-Five Points Road between State Route 741 and the east corporate limits and on all State routes or through streets and through highways within the Municipality outside business districts, except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (6) hereof;

  (Ord. 997. Passed 12-3-81; Ord. 90-70. Passed 11-15-90.)

(4) Forty-five miles per hour on Yankee Road and on all State routes through or within the Municipality where such speed limit is posted;

  (Ord. 997. Passed 12-3-81; Ord. 92-2. Passed 1-2-92.)

(5) Fifty miles per hour on State Route 741 between Eleanor Drive and the Warren-Montgomery line and on controlled-access highways and expressways within the Municipality, and on State routes outside urban districts unless a lower prima-facie speed is established as provided by Ohio R.C. 4511.21; 

  (Ord. 92-40. Passed 7-16-92.)

(6) Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the Municipality;

(7) Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on freeways with paved shoulders inside the Municipality other than freeways as provided in subsection (b)(10) and (b)(11) hereof.

(8) Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on portions of freeways that are part of the interstate system and on all portions of freeways that are not part of the interstate system, but are built to the standards and specifications that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate system for operators of any motor vehicle weighing in excess of eight thousand pounds empty weight and any noncommercial bus except as provided in subsection (b)(11) hereof;

(9) Fifty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle weighing eight thousand pounds or less empty weight and any commercial bus at all times on all portions of freeways that are part of the interstate system and that had such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995, and freeways that are not part of the interstate system, but are built to the standards and specifications that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate system and that had such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995, unless a higher speed limit is established under Ohio R.C. 4511.21(L);

(10) Sixty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle weighing eight thousand pounds or less empty weight and any commercial bus at all times on all portions of the following:

  A. Freeways that are part of the interstate system and that had such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995, and freeways that are not part of the interstate system, but are built to the standards and specifications that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate system and that had such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995;

  B. Freeways that are part of the interstate system and freeways that are not part of the interstate system but are built to the standards and specifications that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate system, and that had such a speed limit established under Ohio R.C. 4511.21(L);

  C. Rural, divided, multi-lane highways that are designated as part of the national highway system under the "National Highway System Designation Act of 1995&quot;, 109 Stat. 568, 23 U.S.C.A. 103, and that had such a speed limit established under Ohio R.C. 4511.21(M).

(11) Sixty-five miles per hour at all times on all portions of freeways that are part of the interstate system and that had such a speed limit on the effective date of this amendment for operators of any motor vehicle weighing in excess of eight thousand pounds empty weight and any noncommercial bus.

(12) Fifteen miles per hour for any driveway or parking area within the boundaries of a municipal park or other recreational facility owned or operated by the City of Springboro. (Ord. 00-54. Passed 10-19-00.)

(13) Fifteen miles per hour on Deer Valley Drive of the Twin Creek subdivision. 

  (Ord. 06-36. Passed 11-16-06.)

(14) Thirty-five miles per hour on South Pioneer Boulevard, from State Route 73 (West Central Avenue) to Lower Springboro Road.

  (Ord. 07-31. Passed 7-5-07.)

(c) It is prima-facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed limitations in subsection (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or any declared pursuant to this section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed limitations in subsection (d) hereof. No person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.

(d) No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as follows:

(1) At a speed exceeding fifty-five miles per hour, except upon a freeway as provided in subsection (b)(10) hereof;

(2) At a speed exceeding sixty-five miles per hour upon a freeway as provided in subsection (b)(10) hereof except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) hereof;

(3) If a motor vehicle weighing in excess of 8,000 pounds empty weight or a noncommercial bus as prescribed in subsection (b)(8) hereof, at a speed exceeding fifty-five miles per hour upon a freeway as provided in that subsection.

(4) At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a speed limit of not more than sixty-five miles per hour pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21(L)(2) or (M);

(5) At a speed exceeding sixty-five miles per hour upon a freeway for which such a speed limit has been established through the operation of Ohio R.C. 4511.21(L)(3);

(6) At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a speed limit pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21(I)(2).

(e) In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance upon subsection (c) hereof also the speed which subsections (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or a limit declared pursuant to this section declares is prima-facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than will permit the person to bring the vehicle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven.

(f) When a speed in excess of both a prima-facie limitation and a limitation in subsection (d)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) hereof is alleged, the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act, with a violation indicated of both subsections (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or of a limit declared pursuant to this section by the Director or local authorities, and of the limitation in subsection (d)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) hereof. If the court finds a violation of subsection (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof, or a limit declared pursuant to this section has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction under such subsection and dismiss the charge under subsection (d)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) hereof. If it finds no violation of subsections (b)(1)A. to (b)(6) hereof or a limit declared pursuant to this section, it shall then consider whether the evidence supports a conviction under subsection (d)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) hereof.

(g) Points shall be assessed for violation of a limitation under subsection (d) hereof in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4510.036.

(h) Whenever, in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or this section, the speed limitations as established herein have been altered, either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima-facie unlawful for any person to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.

(i) As used in this section:

(1) &quot;Interstate system&quot; has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C.A. 101.

(2) &quot;Commercial bus&quot; means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.

(3) &quot;Noncommercial bus&quot; includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with a charitable or nonprofit organization.

(j) (1) A violation of any provision of this section is one of the following:

  A. Except as otherwise provided in subsections (j)(1)B., (1)C., (2) and (3) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;

  B. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of this section or of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any provision of this section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;

  C. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any provision of this section or of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any provision of this section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.

(2) If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or of any provision of a municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to Ohio R.C. 4511.21 and operated a motor vehicle faster than thirty-five miles an hour in a business district of a municipal corporation, faster than fifty miles an hour in other portions of a municipal corporation, or faster than thirty-five miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school during the school's opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (j)(1) of this section, if the offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender's sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed pursuant to this subsection and if the court determines that the offender is an indigent person and unable to pay the fine. 

  (ORC 4511.21)