---
layout: default
title: "434&#46;08  VEHICULAR HOMICIDE AND MANSLAUGHTER."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft, shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another's pregnancy in any of the following ways:

(1) Negligently;

(2) As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision of any section contained in Title XLV of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor or of a municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section contained in Title XLV of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor.

(b) (1) Whoever violates subsection (a)(1) of this section is guilty of vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, vehicular homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender's driver's license or commercial driver's license without examination under Ohio R.C. 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense. The court shall impose a mandatory jail term on the offender when required by Ohio R.C. 2903.06(E).

(2) Whoever violates subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender's driver's license or commercial driver's license without examination under Ohio R.C. 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.

(c) The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least fifteen days on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of subsection (a)(1)B. of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer jail term as authorized pursuant to Section [698.02](38e2f631.html). The court shall impose a mandatory prison term on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of subsection (a)(1)A. hereof if either of the following applies:

(1) The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or Ohio R.C. 2903.06 or 2903.08.

(2) At the time of the offense, the offender was driving under suspension or cancellation under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender's driver's license or commercial driver's license without examination under Ohio R.C. 4507.10. 

(d) As used in this section:

(1) "Mandatory prison term" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.

(2) "Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense" means a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that section applies, a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06, 2903.07 or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.

(e) For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this State, or current or former law of another state or the United States. (ORC 2903.06)

(f) The court imposing a sentence upon an offender for any violation of this section or Ohio R.C. 2903.06 also shall impose a suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in division (B) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02 that is equivalent in length to the suspension required for a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06 under similar circumstances.

(ORC 4510.07)