---
layout: default
title: "436&#46;02 PERMITTING OPERATION WITHOUT VALID LICENSE; ONE LICENSE PERMITTED."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking knowing the operator does not have a valid driver's license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.

(b) No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, unless and until he surrenders to the Registrar all valid licenses issued to him by another jurisdiction recognized by the State of Ohio. No person shall be permitted to have more than one valid license at any time. (ORC 4507.02)

(c) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community residential sanction pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding division (A)(2)(a) of Ohio R.C. 2929.28, the offender may be fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) and, notwithstanding division (A)(3) of Ohio R.C. 2929.27, the offender may be ordered pursuant to division (C) of that section to serve a term of community service of up to five hundred hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under division (A) of Ohio R.C. 2705.02 that may be filed in the underlying case. If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4507.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.

(2) Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 4507.02; 4507.99)