---
layout: default
title: "436&#46;071 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under Ohio R.C. 4511.19, 4511.191, or 4511.196 or under Ohio R.C. 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways within this Municipality during the period of the suspension.

(b) Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.

(1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b)(2) or (3) of this section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:

  A. A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day term shall be imposed, unless, subject to subsection (c) of this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than thirty consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic monitoring imposed under this subsection shall not exceed six months. If the court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this subsection, the court may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months.

  B. A fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).

  C. A license suspension under subsection (e) of this section.

(2) If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:

  A. A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to subsection (c) of this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than ninety consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year.

  B. Notwithstanding the fines provided for in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).

  C. A license suspension under subsection (e) of this section.

(3) If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:

  A. A mandatory jail term of thirty consecutive days. Notwithstanding the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term.

  B. Notwithstanding the fines set forth in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500).

  C. A license suspension under subsection (e) of this section.

(c) No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest with electronic monitoring under subsection (b)(1) or (2) of this section unless, within sixty days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be able to begin serving that term within the sixty-day period following the date of sentencing.

An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that period.

(d) Fifty per cent of any fine imposed by a court under subsection (b)(1), (2) or (3) of this section shall be deposited into the county indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund or municipal indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund under the control of that court, as created by the county or municipal corporation pursuant to division (H) of Ohio R.C. 4511.191.

(e) In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor's court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in division (A)(7) of Ohio R.C. 4510.02.

When permitted as specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.021, if the court grants limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must display restricted license plates, issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.231, on the vehicle driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in division (B) of that section.

A suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under Ohio R.C. 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a commercial driver's license under Ohio R.C. 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person whose commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a driver's license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension. 

(f) The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this section for which the offender is sentenced. (ORC 4510.14)

(g) (1) If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to Ohio R.C. 4510.14, the court, in addition to and independent of any sentence that it imposes upon the offender for the offense, if the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the offense is registered in the offender's name, shall do whichever of the following is applicable:

  A. If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14 or former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court shall order the immobilization for thirty days of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment for thirty days of the license plates of that vehicle in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.

  B. If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14 or former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court shall order the immobilization for sixty days of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment for sixty days of the license plates of that vehicle in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.

  C. If, within six years of the current offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.14 or former division (D)(2) of Ohio R.C. 4507.02 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that section or former division, the court shall order the criminal forfeiture to the State of the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the offense.

(2) An order for immobilization and impoundment of a vehicle under this section shall be issued and enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable. The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial responsibility with respect to that vehicle.

(3) An order for criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under this section shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234. Upon receipt of a copy of the order from the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a Deputy Registrar shall accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the date of the order unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take the necessary measures to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer registration of the vehicle.

  (ORC 4510.161)

(h) As used in this section:

(1) "Electronic monitoring" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.

(2) "Equivalent offense" means any of the following:

  A. A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to subsection (a) of this section;

  B. A violation of a former law of this State that was substantially equivalent to subsection (a) of this section.

(3) "Jail" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.

(4) "Mandatory jail term" means the mandatory term in jail of three, ten, or thirty consecutive days that must be imposed under subsection (b)(1), (2) or (3) of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of subsection (a) of this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:

  A. Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term must be served in a jail.

  B. Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised Code.

   (ORC 4510.14)