436.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES.
=================================

​(a) No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to properly display in plain view on the front and rear of the
motor vehicle the distinctive number and registration mark, including
any county identification sticker and any validation sticker issued
under Ohio R.C. 4503.19 and 4503.191, furnished by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety, except that a manufacturer of motor vehicles or dealer
therein, the holder of an intransit permit, and the owner or operator of
a motorcycle, motorized bicycle, manufactured home, mobile home, trailer
or semitrailer shall display on the rear only. A motor vehicle that is
issued two license plates shall display the validation sticker on the
rear license plate. A commercial tractor that does not receive an
apportioned license plate under the international registration plan
shall be issued one license plate and one validation sticker, which
license plate and validation sticker shall be displayed on the front of
the commercial tractor. An apportioned vehicle receiving an apportioned
license plate under the international registration plan shall display
the license plate only on the front of a commercial tractor and on the
rear of all other vehicles. All license plates shall be securely
fastened so as not to swing, and shall not be covered by any material
that obstructs their visibility.

No person to whom a temporary license placard or windshield sticker has
been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under Ohio R.C. 4503.182, and
no operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary
license placard in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either in the
rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle, or fail
to display the windshield sticker in plain view on the rear window of
the motor vehicle. No temporary license placard or windshield sticker
shall be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.

​(b) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 4503.21)
