---
layout: default 
title: 436.10 EXPIRED OR UNLAWFUL LICENSE PLATES.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle which is parked or
operated upon the public streets or highways shall fail to annually file
the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor, as required
by Ohio R.C. Chapter 4503. (ORC 4503.11)

​(b) No person shall operate, drive or park upon the public streets or
highways a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive
number or identification mark assigned to it upon its original
registration. (ORC 4549.11)

​(c) No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of
Ohio shall operate, drive or park the motor vehicle upon the public
streets or highways, while it displays a distinctive number or
identification mark issued by or under the authority of another state,
without complying with the laws of Ohio relating to the registration and
identification of motor vehicles.

(ORC 4549.12)

​(d) No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street
or highway upon which is displayed an expired license plate or an
expired validation sticker.

​(e) No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street
or highway upon which are displayed any license plates not legally
registered and issued for such vehicle, or upon which are displayed any
license plates that were issued on an application for registration that
contains any false statement by the applicant.

​(f) (1) Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.

​(2) Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
each subsequent offense.

​(3) Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no other
penalty is provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 4549.11; 4549.12)
