---
layout: default 
title: 436.11 USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES; TRANSFER OF REGISTRATION.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the streets
in this Municipality if it displays a license plate or a distinctive
number or identification mark that meets any of the following criteria:

​(1) Is fictitious;

​(2) Is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;

​(3) Belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section does
not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the streets in this
Municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates that
originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the
streets in this Municipality, during the thirty-day period described in
subsection (c) hereof.

​(b) Whoever violates subsection (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first
offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent
offense.

(ORC 4549.08)

​(c) Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration
of the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner shall immediately
remove the license plates from the motor vehicle. The transfer of the
registration and, where applicable, the license plates from the motor
vehicle for which they originally were issued to a succeeding motor
vehicle purchased by the same person in whose name the original
registration and license plates were issued shall be done within a
period not to exceed thirty days. During that thirty-day period, the
license plates from the motor vehicle for which they originally were
issued may be displayed on the succeeding motor vehicle, and the
succeeding motor vehicle may be operated on the streets of the
Municipality.

​(d) Whoever violates subsection (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (ORC 4503.12)
