---
layout: default 
title: 438.02 LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES
AND HEIGHTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a
street or highway shall display lighted lights and illuminating devices
as required by this chapter during all of the following times:

​(1) The time from sunset to sunrise;

​(2) At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial
objects on the street or highway are not discernible at a distance of
one thousand feet ahead;

​(3) At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.

Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under
Ohio R.C. 4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this
section, shall be operated upon a street or highway using only parking
lights as illumination.

​(b) Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the
distance from which certain lights and devices shall render objects
visible, or within which such lights or devices shall be visible, such
distance shall be measured upon a straight level unlighted street under
normal atmospheric conditions unless a different condition is expressly
stated.

​(c) Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the
mounted height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of
such light or device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.

​(d) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated
upon a street or highway to stop the vehicle solely because the officer
observes that a violation of subsection (a)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation or summons for a violation of that subsection, or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of
that subsection.

​(e) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 4513.03)
