---
layout: default 
title: 438.10 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; EMBLEM
REQUIRED.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles
and vehicles referred to in Section [438.02](23a85aa2.html), be equipped
with at least one light displaying a white light visible from a distance
of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle, and also shall
be equipped with two lights displaying red light visible from a distance
of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one light displaying a red light visible from a distance of
not less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from
all distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by
the lawful lower beams of headlights.

Lights and reflectors required or authorized by this section shall meet
standards adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.

​(b) All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including
all road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when
being used in actual construction and maintenance work in an area
guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used, or when operating or
traveling within the limits of a construction area designated by the
Ohio Director of Transportation, or the Municipal or County Engineer,
when such construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of
the Director and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as set
forth in Ohio R.C. 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed
of twenty-five miles per hour or less shall be operated at a speed not
exceeding twenty-five miles per hour, and shall display a triangular
slow-moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The emblem shall be mounted so as to
be visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the rear. The
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications
for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards
and specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall
correlate with and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by
the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.

A unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour may be operated on a
street or highway at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour
provided it is operated in accordance with this section.

As used in this subsection (b), "machinery" does not include any vehicle
designed to be drawn by an animal.

​(c) The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn
vehicles, and to the slow-moving vehicles specified in subsection (b)
hereof operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use
on slow-moving vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles
or on any other type of vehicle or stationary object on the highway is
prohibited.

​(d) (1) No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in
subsection (b) hereof, except those units designed to be completely
mounted on a primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on
or after April 1, 1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a
slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting device as specified in subsection
(b) hereof.

​(2) No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer
to operate at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour unless the
unit displays a slow- moving vehicle emblem as specified in subsection
(b) of this section and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural
Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, agricultural equipment; speed
identification symbol (SIS).

​(e) Any boat trailer, farm machinery, or other machinery defined as a
slow-moving vehicle in subsection (b) of this section, in addition to
the use of the slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm
machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed
greater than twenty-five miles per hour, in addition to the display of a
speed identification symbol may be equipped with a red flashing light
that shall be visible from a distance of not less than one thousand feet
to the rear at all times specified in Section [438.02](23b24956.html).
When a double-faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the
front and red light to the rear.

In addition to the lights described in this subsection, farm machinery
and motor vehicles escorting farm machinery may display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, as permitted by Section
[438.16](243669a2.html), and also may display simultaneously flashing
turn signals or warning lights, as permitted by that section.

​(f) Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:

​(1) With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with subsection (b)
hereof;

​(2) With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under this subsection (f);

​(3) With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in this subsection (f).

The Ohio Director of Public Safety, subject to Ohio R.C. Chapter 119,
shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position of mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by
this subsection (f). The rules shall permit, as a minimum, the alternate
reflective material to be black, gray or silver in color. The alternate
reflective material shall be mounted on the animal-drawn vehicle so as
to be visible at all times specified in Section 438.02, from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps.

​(g) Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer
to operate at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour shall
display a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol
that meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, agricultural
equipment; speed identification symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated
upon a street or highway, irrespective of the speed at which the unit is
operated on the street or highway. The speed identification symbol shall
indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the unit of farm
machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate. The display of the
speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the standard
prescribed in this subsection.

If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour is being
operated on a street or highway at a speed greater than twenty-five
miles per hour and is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall display a slow-moving
vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is the same as the
speed identification symbol that is displayed on the agricultural
tractor.

​(h) When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer
to operate at a speed greater than twenty-five miles per hour is being
operated on a street or highway at a speed greater than twenty-five
miles per hour, the operator shall possess some documentation published
or provided by the manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in miles
per hour at which the manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to
operate.

​(i) As used in this section, "boat trailer" means any vehicle designed
and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and
a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of
twenty-five miles per hour or less.

​(j) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 4513.11)
