---
layout: default 
title: "440&#46;05 TOWING REQUIREMENTS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed
thereby, and such drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen
feet from one vehicle to the other, except the connection between any
two vehicles transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of
structural nature which cannot readily be dismembered.

​(b) When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection
a white flag or cloth not less than twelve inches square.

​(c) In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means
of a fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the
vehicle by which it is being drawn. The chains or cables shall be of
sufficient size and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from
the drawing vehicle in case the drawbar or other connection should break
or become disengaged. In case of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting
pole to the drawing vehicle shall be coupled to the drawing vehicle with
stay chains or cables of sufficient size and strength to prevent the
towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle.

​(d) Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so
designed and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in
the path of the vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from
side to side. Vehicles used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials between a local place of storage and
supply and the farm, when drawn or towed on a street or highway at a
speed of twenty-five miles per hour or less, and vehicles designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a
marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of
twenty-five miles per hour or less shall have a drawbar or other
connection, including the hitch mounted on the towing vehicle, which
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby.
Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be
towed or drawn at one time, except as follows:

​(1) An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such vehicle;

​(2) A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons
may tow or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to
transport agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of
storage. No vehicle being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight
truck shall be considered to be a motor vehicle. (ORC 4513.32)

​(e) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 4513.99)
