440.06 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; TRACKING MUD; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
=================================================================

​(a) No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway or other
public place unless such vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as
to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping therefrom, except that sand or other substances may be dropped
for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substances may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.

​(b) Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans,
bottles, waste paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper,
cartons, boxes, glass, solid waste or any other material of an
unsanitary nature that is susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a
moving vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway or other
public place unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the street,
highway or other public place.

(ORC 4513.31)

​(c) No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track or drop mud,
stones, gravel or other similar material on any street, highway or other
public place.

​(d) It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully
drops or deposits mud, stones, gravel or other similar material or
permits the load or any portion thereof to be dropped or deposited upon
any street, highway or other public place to immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed. (ORC 4513.31)

​(e) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 4513.99)
