---
layout: default
title: "452&#46;05 WILLFULLY LEAVING JUNK VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person shall willfully leave an &quot;abandoned junk motor vehicle&quot; on private property without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right of way of any road or highway, without notification to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving the vehicle in such place.

For purposes of this section, the fact that a vehicle has been so left without permission or notification is prima-facie evidence of abandonment. Nothing contained in this section shall invalidate the provisions of other ordinances regulating or prohibiting the abandonment of motor vehicles on streets, highways, public property or private property within the Municipality. 

(ORC 4513.64)

(b) As used in this section, "abandoned junk motor vehicle" means any unlicensed and inoperable motor vehicle. For the purposes of this section, "unlicensed vehicle" means any motor vehicle that does not have current automobile registration tags prominently displayed upon it. For the purposes of this section, "inoperable motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that cannot be driven or moved under its own power as a consequence of lacking wheels or tires, and engine, generator, battery, ignition system or other part or component part of such vehicle necessary to the starting, driving or moving of such vehicle under its own power.

For purposes of this section, a citation should not be issued for a motor vehicle which is parked on private property due to expired automobile registration.

(Ord. 00-22. Passed 4-6-00.)