---
layout: default 
title: 452.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop
or stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except
that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab
waiting to enter or about to enter such zone, and then only for a period
not to exceed three minutes, if such stopping is not prohibited therein
by posted signs.

​(b) The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand or park such vehicle
upon any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and
posted as such, except in case of an emergency.

​(c) The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or
baggage shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than eighteen inches from the curb and the bus
approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the
movement of other vehicular traffic.

​(d) The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and
posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a
taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
