---
layout: default 
title: "452.13 PARKING DURING SNOW EMERGENCIES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) In order to facilitate the removal of snow from alleys and
thoroughfares and to expedite the free flow of vehicular traffic, no
person shall park a motor vehicle on the side of a street on which a
fire hydrant exists or, where a hydrant is not present, on the most
northerly or westerly side of a street, at such times as two inches of
snow has accumulated and there is a prospect of further snowfall. All
cars parked prior to the time weather conditions prohibit parking on
such side of the street must be removed by the owners or operators
immediately after such conditions are deemed to exist. Any motor vehicle
parked in violation of this subsection shall be removed at the order of
the Chief of Police and shall subject the owner and/or operator thereof
to the penalties provided for a violation of this section.

​(b) It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator of the
motor vehicle to ascertain whether or not weather conditions require the
removal of such motor vehicle from the prohibited side of the street and
to remove such motor vehicle parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this section.

​(c) After two inches of snow has accumulated and there is a prospect of
further snowfall, a snow emergency parking situation shall exist and
thereafter the Police Division shall order the removal of all vehicles
parked on the prohibited sides of the streets which have not been
removed by the owners or operators thereof. The Municipality shall make
the following reasonable efforts to notify the owner of any such vehicle
before actually removing the vehicle:

​(1) Attempt to obtain the name and address of the vehicle owner through
the appropriate State agency; and

​(2) If the vehicle is registered to an address within the 513 area
code, attempt to notify the owner by telephone so long as long distance
expenses are not incurred.

Such vehicle shall then be removed to a central location and records
shall be kept by the Division of all vehicles removed.

Where a vehicle is towed to a central location, the vehicle can be
recovered only upon the payment of the towing charges imposed.

​(d) Once in effect, the parking restrictions under this section shall
remain in effect until the parking ban is terminated by a suitable
announcement of the Manager or his or her designee, except that any
prohibited street parking area which has become clear of ice and snow
from curb to curb for the length thereof lying between two successive
intersections shall automatically be excluded therefrom. However,
nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any time
or place where it is prohibited by any other provision of law.

(Ord. 766. Passed 12-21-78.)
