---
layout: default
title: "474&#46;02 RIDING UPON SEATS; CARRYING PACKAGES; HANDLE BARS; HELMETS AND GLASSES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) For purposes of this section &quot;snowmobile&quot; has the same meaning as given that term in Ohio R.C 4519.01.

(b) No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, or carry any other person upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular seat.

(c) No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.

(d) No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.

(e) No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat other than while sitting upon the seat.

(f) No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars.

(g) No bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped, nor shall any motorcycle be operated on a highway when the handle bars or grips are more than fifteen inches higher than the seat or saddle for the operator.

(h) No person shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using safety glasses or other protective eye device. No person who is under the age of eighteen years, or who holds a motorcycle operator's endorsement or license bearing &quot;novice&quot; designation that is currently in effect as provided in Ohio R.C. 4507.13, shall operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless wearing a protective helmet on the person's head, and no other person shall be a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses or other protective eye device shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The provisions of this subsection or a violation thereof shall not be used in the trial of any civil action. 

(i) (1) No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of such operation, is wearing on the person's head a protective helmet that conforms with rules adopted by the Director.

(2) No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4507.05 in any of the following circumstances:

  A. At any time when lighted lights are required by Section [438.02](23b24956.html)(a)(1);

  B. While carrying a passenger;

  C. On any limited access highway.

(j) Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is firmly attached to the bicycle.

(k) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.

(ORC 4511.53)