---
layout: default 
title: 474.07 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Whenever a designated usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a street, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not
use the street.

​(b) Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or street,
such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give an audible signal before attempting to overtake and pass a
pedestrian or another bicycle. This audible signal must be given only by
bell or other warning device capable of giving an audible signal and
shall be given at such a distance and in such a manner as not to startle
the person being overtaken and passed.

​(c) No person shall ride a bicycle across or through any intersection
involving a through street. Such intersections are to be crossed by
walking the bicycle across or through the intersection.

​(d) Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person,
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white or
metallic cane, shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.

​(e) When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give
hand signals before turning, changing lanes or stopping. Such signals
shall conform with Section [432.14](1f90e301.html).

​(f) Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk or bicycle
path, or endangering the life, limb or property of any person while in
the lawful use of the streets, sidewalks or any other private or public
property.

​(g) No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions then existing.

​(h) The operator of a bicycle emerging from or turning into an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk
area extending across any alley, driveway, or building, yield the right
of way to all pedestrians approaching on such sidewalk area. Upon
entering the street, such operator shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on such street.

​(i) No person shall engage in trick riding or operate a bicycle without
both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give the hand
signals required herein.

​(j) Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year
after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
