---
layout: default 
title: 474.12 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR MOTORIZED
BICYCLES.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person operating a motorized bicycle shall remove both feet from
the pedals or practice or perform any acrobatic riding on any of the
public streets or public places in the Municipality.

​(b) The operator of a motorized bicycle emerging from an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk
area, and upon entering the roadway, yield the right of way to all
pedestrians and vehicles approaching on such sidewalk or sidewalk area
or upon such roadway.

​(c) No person shall operate a motorized bicycle:

​(1) Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the
life, limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the
streets or sidewalks or any other public or private property;

​(2) Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such
motorized bicycle;

​(3) In a weaving or zigzag course, unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law;

​(4) Without both hands upon the handle grips, except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals;

​(5) At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing; or

​(6) Without having in effect a liability insurance policy providing
coverage for bodily injury and property damage.

(Ord. 1110. Passed 3-15-84.)

​(d) Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year
after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
