---
layout: default 
title: "476&#46;02 EQUIPMENT&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all purpose
vehicles shall include, but not necessarily be limited to requirements
for the following items:

​(1) At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100
feet ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;

​(2) At least one red taillight having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of
darkness;

​(3) Adequate brakes. Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow,
shall be capable of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more,
and, while carrying such driver, be capable of stopping in not more than
forty feet from an initial steady speed of twenty miles per hour, or
locking its traction belt.

​(4) A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall
include sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed
eighty- two decibels on the "A" scale at fifty feet as measured
according to SAE J192 (September 1970).

​(b) No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in subsections (a)(1) and (2) hereof shall not be required on
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.

​(c) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, whoever violates
subsection (b) of this section shall be fined not more than fifty
dollars (\$50.00). If the offender within the preceding year previously
has committed a violation of subsection (b) of this section, whoever
violates subsection (b) of this section shall be fined not less than
fifteen dollars (\$15.00) nor more than one hundred dollars (\$100.00),
imprisoned not more than three days, or both.

(ORC 4519.20)
