---
layout: default 
title: 476.08 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) No person shall do any of the following:

​(1) Operate in this Municipality an off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle without having a certificate of title for the
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, if such a certificate is
required by Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519 to be issued for the off-highway
motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a physical certificate of
title has not been issued for it, operate an off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership information relating to
the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the automated title
processing system by a clerk of a court of common pleas;

​(2) Operate in this Municipality an off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if a certificate of title to the off-highway
motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been
canceled;

​(3) Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as
prescribed in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519;

​(4) Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a clerk of the court
of common pleas as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the
destruction or dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle described in the certificate of title;

​(5) Violate any provision of Ohio R.C. 4519.51 to 4519.70 or any lawful
rules adopted pursuant to those sections;

​(6) Operate in this Municipality an off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or
ownership of the motorcycle or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the
automated title processing system has been canceled.

​(b) Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than two
hundred dollars (\$200.00) or imprisoned not more than ninety days, or
both.

(ORC 4519.66) **CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF SPRINGBORO**
