606.02 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
==============================

​(a) A person acts purposely when it is his specific intention to cause
a certain result, or when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender
intends to accomplish thereby, it is his specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.

​(b) A person acts knowingly, regardless of his purpose, when he is
aware that his conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances
when he is aware that such circumstances probably exist.

​(c) A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, he perversely disregards a known risk that his conduct is
likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of a certain nature.
A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with heedless
indifference to the consequences, he perversely disregards a known risk
that such circumstances are likely to exist.

​(d) A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, he fails to perceive or avoid a risk that his conduct may
cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial
lapse from due care, he fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.

​(e) When the section defining an offense provides that negligence
suffices to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge
or purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element. When
recklessness suffices to establish an element of an offense, then
knowledge or purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element.
When knowledge suffices to establish an element of an offense, then
purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element. (ORC 2901.22)
