---
layout: default 
title: 606.05 RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) hereof, sections of
the Codified Ordinances defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the Municipality and liberally construed in favor of
the accused.

​(b) Rules of criminal procedure and sections of the Ohio Revised Code
providing for criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the
fair, impartial, speedy and sure administration of justice.

​(c) Any provision of a section of the Codified Ordinances that refers
to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a
section of the Codified Ordinances or Ohio Revised Code or of a division
of a section of the Codified Ordinances or Ohio Revised Code shall be
construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to
a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this State, another state, or the United States or under an existing or
former municipal ordinance.

​(d) Any provision of the Codified Ordinances that refers to a section,
or to a division of a section, of the Codified Ordinances that defines
or specifies a criminal offense shall be construed to also refer to an
existing or former law of this State, another state, or the United
States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or to an existing
or former division of any such existing or former law or ordinance that
defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a substantially
equivalent offense. (ORC 2901.04)
