---
layout: default
title: "606&#46;12 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME, INJURY OR KNOWLEDGE OF DEATH."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a)  (1) Except as provided in subsection (a)(2) hereof, no person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly fail to report such information to law enforcement authorities.

(2) No person, knowing that a violation of division (B) of Ohio R.C. 2913.04 has been, or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law enforcement authorities.

(b) Except for conditions that are within the scope of subsection (e) hereof, no person who is a physician, limited practitioner, nurse or other person giving aid to a sick or injured person, shall negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab wound that the physician, limited practitioner, nurse or person treated or observed, or any serious physical harm to persons that the physician, limited practitioner, nurse or person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from an offense of violence.

(c) No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician whom the person knows to be treating the deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected, or to a law enforcement officer, ambulance service, emergency squad or the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the death is believed to have occurred or knowledge concerning the death is obtained.

(d) No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a report required by subsection (c) hereof was made, or to any law enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within the person's knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.

(e) (1) As used in this subsection (e), &quot;burn injury&quot; means any of the following:

  A. Second or third degree burns;

  B. Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due to the inhalation of super-heated air;

  C. Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.

(2) No physician, nurse or limited practitioner who, outside a hospital, sanitarium or other medical facility, attends or treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.

(3) No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital, sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.

(4) No person who is required to report any burn injury under subsection (e)(2) or (3) hereof shall fail to file, within three working days after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury with the Office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.

(5) Anyone participating in the making of reports under subsection (e) hereof or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. 4731.22, the physician-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a person's burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding resulting from a report submitted pursuant to subsection (e) hereof.

(f) (1) Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern or resident, registered or licensed practical nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker, social work assistant, professional clinical counselor, or professional counselor, who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in Ohio R.C. 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the patient's or client's records.

(2) Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. 4731.22, the doctor-patient privilege shall not be a ground for excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or belief noted pursuant to subsection (f)(1) hereof, and the information may be admitted as evidence in accordance with the rules of evidence.

(g) Subsection (a) or (d) hereof does not require disclosure of information, when any of the following applies:

(1) The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between attorney and client, doctor and patient, licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client, member of the clergy or rabbi or minister or priest and any person communicating information confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister or priest for a religious counseling purpose in the professional character of the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest, husband and wife, or a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications relay service call.

(2) The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor's immediate family.

(3) Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news source, privileged under Ohio R.C. 2739.04 or 2739.12.

(4) Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential communication made to that member of the clergy in that member's capacity as such by a person seeking the aid or counsel or that member of the clergy.

(5) Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide program of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital, clinic, person, agency or organization certified pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3793.06.

(6) Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of Ohio R.C. 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in violation of former Ohio R.C. 2907.12. As used in this subsection, &quot;counseling services&quot; include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide such services.

(h) No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.

(i) Whoever violates subsection (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of failure to report a crime. Violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of subsection (a)(2) or (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.

(j)  Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) hereof is guilty of failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. 

(k) (1) Whoever negligently violates subsection (e) hereof is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(2) Whoever knowingly violates subsection (e) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.

  (ORC 2921.22)