---
layout: default 
title: 606.18 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the
following:

​(1) Any compensation, other than is allowed by Ohio R.C. 102.03(G),
(H), and (I) or other provisions of law, to perform his official duties,
to perform any other act or service in the public servant's public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public
servant's public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the
public servant's public compensation;

​(2) Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform his official duties.

​(b) No public servant for his own personal or business use and no
person for his own personal or business use or for the personal or
business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit or
accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:

​(1) Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency;

​(2) Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to his compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or
other material aspects of his employment.

​(c) No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund or political action committee shall coerce any
contribution in consideration of either of the following:

​(1) Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency;

​(2) Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to his compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or
other material aspects of his employment.

​(d) Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.

​(e) A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of
trust in this Municipality for a period of seven years from the date of
conviction.

​(f) Subsections (a), (b) and (c) hereof do not prohibit a person from
making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund or political action committee or prohibit a
political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign fund or
political action committee from accepting voluntary contributions.

(ORC 2921.43)
