---
layout: default
title: "606&#46;28 REFUSAL TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION IN PUBLIC PLACE."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the person's name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:

(1) The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a criminal offense.

(2) The person witnessed any of the following:

  A. An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the laws of this State;

  B. A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or to property;

  C. Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in committing, any offense identified in subsection (a)(2)A. or B. of this section;

  D. Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in subsection (a)(2)A. or B. of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or complicity described in subsection (a)(2)C. of this section has been, is being, or is about to be committed.

(b) Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disclose one's personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.

(c) Nothing in this section requires a person to answer any questions beyond that person's name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a person for not providing any information beyond that person's name, address, or date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.

(d) It is not a violation of this section to refuse to answer a question that would reveal a person's age or date of birth if age is an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing. 
(ORC 2921.29)