---
layout: default
title: "612&#46;07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) As used in this section:

(1) "Chauffeured limousine" means a vehicle registered under Ohio R.C. 4503.24.

(2) &quot;Street,&quot; &quot;highway&quot; and &quot;motor vehicle&quot; have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.

(b) No person shall have in the person's possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:

(1) In a State liquor store;

(2) Except as provided in subsection (c) hereof, on the premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;

(3) In any other public place;

(4) Except as provided in subsection (d) or (e) hereof, while operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking;

(5) Except as provided in subsection (d) or (e) hereof, while being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking.

(c) (1) A person may have in the person's possession an opened container of any of the following:

  A. Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D- 5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D8, E, F, F-2, F-5, F-7 or F-8 permit;

  B. Beer, wine or mixed beverages served for consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-3 permit or wine served for consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;

  C. Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a convention facility as provided in Ohio R.C. 4303.201;

  D. Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission. 

  E. Spirituous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting sample, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4301.171.

(2) A person may have in the person's possession on an F liquor permit premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the F permit is issued. As used in this section, "music festival" means a series of outdoor live musical performances, extending for a period of at least three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least forty acres.

(3) A. A person may have in the person's possession on a D-2 liquor permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.

  B. As used in subsection (c)(3)A. of this section:

   1. "Orchestral performance" means a concert comprised of a group of not fewer than forty musicians playing various musical instruments.

   2. "Outdoor performing arts center" means an outdoor performing arts center that is located on not less than one hundred fifty acres of land and that is open for performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each year.

(4) A person may have in the person's possession an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in subsection (c)(3)B.1. hereof if the person with supervision and control over the performance grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.

(5) A person may have in the person's possession on an F-9 liquor permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is attending an orchestral performance and the holder the F-9 permit grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-9 permit is issued.

As used in subsection (c)(5) hereof, "orchestral performance" has the same meaning as in subsection (c)(3)B. of this section.

(d) This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of the fee imposed for the use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged contract, or the guest of such a person, when all of the following apply:

(1) The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;

(2) The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator of the limousine is located;

(3) The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking.

(e) An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the following apply:

(1) The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.

(2) The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with subsection (e)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or, if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily accessible by the driver. (ORC 4301.62)

(f) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 4301.99(A))