612.08 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
====================================

​(a) This rule shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.

​(b) No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold
or delivered by an A-1, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1,
D-2, D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5G, D-5H, D-5K,
D-8, F, F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, G or I permit holder:

​(1) From Monday to Saturday between the hours of one a.m. and five
thirty a.m.

​(2) On Sunday between the hours of one a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.

​(3) Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above
permit holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine,
mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.

​(c) No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquid shall be sold
or delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A,
D-5B, D-5C, D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5I, D-5J, or D-7 permit holder:

​(1) From Monday to Saturday between the hours of two thirty a.m. and
five thirty a.m.

​(2) On Sunday between the hours of two thirty a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.

​(3) Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above
permit holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine,
mixed beverages or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.

​(d) Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in
subsection (b) or (c) above shall be subject to the provisions of
subsection (b), unless statutorily authorized otherwise.

​(e) The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no
event shall they begin prior to five thirty a.m. (OAC 4301:1-1-49)

​(f) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
