---
layout: default 
title: 618.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS GENERALLY.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall:

​(1) Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound
or confine an animal without supplying it during such confinement with a
sufficient quantity of good wholesome food and water;

​(2) Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during such
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would
otherwise become sick or in some other way suffer. This subsection
(a)(2) does not apply to animals impounded or confined prior to
slaughter. For the purpose of this section, "shelter" means a man-made
enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or natural windbreak or sunshade that is
developed from the earth's contour, tree development or vegetation;

​(3) Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;

​(4) Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor
feed cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;

​(5) Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than
twenty-eight hours after they are so placed without supplying them with
necessary food, water and attention, nor permit such livestock to be so
crowded as to overlie, crush, wound or kill each other.

​(b) Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be
separate and apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad
form, the length of time in which such livestock may be detained in any
cars or compartments without food, water and attention, may be extended
to thirty-six hours without penalty therefor. This section does not
prevent the dehorning of cattle.

(ORC 959.13)

​(c) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit
the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including,
but not limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or
livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this subsection, the
proceeds from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses
incurred with regard to the care of the animal from the time it was
taken from the custody of the former owner. The balance of the proceeds
from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former owner of the animal.
(ORC 959.99(D))
