---
layout: default 
title: 618.59 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

An application for any permit required pursuant to this chapter shall be
made to the City in writing and upon a form furnished by the City. Such
application shall be verified by the person who desires to have, keep,
maintain or having in his/her possession or under his/her control, in
the City, the animal for which a permit is required, and shall set forth
the following:

​(a) Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.

​(b) The applicant's interest in such animal.

​(c) The proposed location, and the name, address and telephone number
of the owner of such location, and of the lessee, if any.

​(d) The number and general description of all animals for which the
permit is sought.

​(e) Any information known to the applicant concerning vicious or
dangerous propensities of all such animals.

​(f) The housing arrangements for all such animals with particular
details as to safety or structure, locks, fencing, etc.

​(g) Safety precautions proposed to be taken.

​(h) Noises or odors anticipated in the keeping of such animals.

​(i) Prior history of incidents involving the public health or safety
involving any of such animals.

​(j) Proof of insurance to cover those who may be injured or killed by
such animal.

​(k) A statement, signed by the applicant, indemnifying the City and its
agents and employees for any and all injuries that may result from such
animal.

​(l) Any additional information required by the Chief Animal Control
Officer at the time of filing such application or thereafter. (Ord.
90-2. Passed 1-4-90.)
