---
layout: default 
title: "630.02 GAMBLING.."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(1) Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;

​(2) Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of
chance;

​(3) Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information
for use in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with
bookmaking or with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme
of chance;

​(4) Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood;

​(5) With purpose to violate subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this
section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any gambling device.

​(b) For purposes of subsection (a)(1) of this section, a person
facilitates bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an
illegal bookmaking operation, including, without limitation, placing a
bet with a person engaged in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For
purposes of subsection (a)(2) of this section, a person facilitates a
game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme of chance if the person
in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation of any such game
or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such game or
scheme.

​(c) This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.

​(d) This section does not apply to any of the following:

​(1) Games of chance, if all of the following apply:

A. The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for money.

B. The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization that
is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is,
exempt from Federal income taxation under subsection 501(a) and
described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.

C. The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a
calendar year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable
organization for a period of no less than one year immediately preceding
the conducting of the games of chance, on premises leased from a
governmental unit, or on premises that are leased from a veteran's or
fraternal organization and that have been owned by the lessor veteran's
or fraternal organization for a period of no less than one year
immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance.

A charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran's or
fraternal organization to conduct a festival described in subsection
(d)(1)C. hereof if the veteran's or fraternal organization has already
leased the premises twelve times during the preceding year to charitable
organizations for that purpose. If a charitable organization leases
premises from a veteran's or fraternal organization to conduct a
festival described in subsection (d)(1)C. hereof, the charitable
organization shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the
festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a
charitable organization may pay under Section
[630.06](2f39f2d4.html)(b)(1) when it leases premises from another
charitable organization to conduct bingo games.

D. All of the money or assets received from the games of chance after
deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, or given, donated or otherwise transferred to, any
organization that is described in subsection 509(a)(1), (2) or (3) of
the Internal Revenue Code and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that is tax exempt under subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;

E. The games of chance are not conducted during, or within ten hours of,
a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to Section
[630.13.](2fd7fb52.html)

No person shall receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip,
donations, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or
indirectly, for operating or assisting in the operation of any game of
chance.

​(2) Any tag fishing tournament operated under a permit issued under
Ohio R.C. 1533.92, as "tag fishing tournament" is defined in Ohio R.C.
1531.01.

​(3) Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08.

​(e) Subsection (d) hereof shall not be construed to authorize the sale,
lease or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by subsection (d) hereof, by any charitable
organization that is granted that right.

​(f) Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a
gambling offense, gambling is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law. (ORC 2915.02)
