630.10 LOCATION OF INSTANT BINGO.
=================================

​(a) No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a
written contract, as described in Section [630.09](2f85a629.html), with
the charitable instant bingo organization to assist in the conduct of
instant bingo other than at a bingo session.

​(b) The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a
location where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts
instant bingo other than at a bingo session.

​(c) No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written
contract as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate
any provision of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any
other person in violating any provision of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.

​(d) No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written
contract as prescribed in subsection (a) of this section shall violate
the terms of the contract.

​(e) (1) Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section is
guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in
this subsection, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a
violation of subsection (c) or (d) of this section, illegal instant
bingo conduct is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.

​(2) If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section, any license
that the owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the
owner's or lessor's premises that is issued by the State or a political
subdivision is subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a
monetary penalty at the request of the Attorney General. (ORC 2915.094)
