---
layout: default 
title: "630&#46;11 BINGO OR GAME OF CHANCE RECORDS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to Section [630.02(](2f007661.html)d), shall fail to maintain
the following records for at least three years from the date on which
the bingo or game of chance is conducted:

​(1) An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board
game, and each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits
of each game of instant bingo by serial number;

​(2) An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person
to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;

​(3) A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of
instant bingo by serial number, and the name, address, and social
security number of all persons who are winners of prizes of six hundred
dollars (\$600.00) or more in value;

​(4) An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of the bingo
or game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to
whom the money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net
profit of bingo, or the money or assets received from a game of chance,
for any charitable or other purpose set forth in Section
[630.02](2e6c03fb.html)(d), or Ohio R.C. 2915.101, a list of each
purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each purpose;

​(5) The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;

​(6) A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if
the receipts were excluded from "gross receipts" Section
[630.01](2e6c03fb.html)(t);

​(7) An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo
conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or
society of the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.

​(b) A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is
required to maintain pursuant to subsection (a) of this section at its
principal place of business in this State or at its headquarters in this
State and shall notify the Attorney General of the location at which
those records are kept.

​(c) The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in
Section [630.01](2e6c03fb.html)(o)(1) or (2) shall be deposited into a
checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session
or game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of
the bingo session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic
fund transfers drawn on the bingo session or game account.

​(d) Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory
of all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each
year.

​(e) The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and
reporting to ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance
are properly accounted for.

​(f) A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its
selling or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use
in this State. The record shall include all of the following for each
instance:

​(1) The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;

​(2) The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;

​(3) A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;

​(4) Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise
provided to each charitable organization.

​(g) A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after
the date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of
its selling or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this State.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:

​(1) The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;

​(2) A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;

​(3) Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise
provided to each distributor.

​(h) The Attorney General, or any law enforcement agency, may do all of
the following:

​(1) Investigate any charitable organization or any officer, agent,
trustee, member, or employee of the organization;

​(2) Examine the accounts and records of the organization;

​(3) Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games of
chance;

​(4) Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of chance
are conducted;

​(5) Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter has occurred and to determine
whether Section [630.12](2fce99f8.html) has been complied with.

If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe that a
charitable organization or an officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization has violated any provision of this chapter,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to
enforce this chapter, provided that the law enforcement agency shall
give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this subsection.

​(i) No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access
to any accounts or records of a charitable organization that have been
requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with any
inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of chance or
premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or
a law enforcement agency pursuant to subsection (h) of this section.

​(j) Whoever violates subsection (a) or (i) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. (ORC 2915.10)
