---
layout: default 
title: "630&#46;13 BINGO EXCEPTIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Ohio R.C. 2915.07 to 2915.11 or Section [630.06](2f39f2d4.html) et
seq. of this chapter do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for
the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose
of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements specified
in either subsection (a) hereof:

​(1) A. The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value including an admission fee, or any fee for bingo cards, sheets,
objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in playing bingo, for
the privilege of participating in the bingo game or to defray any costs
of the game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before
or after the bingo game.

B. All prizes awarded during the course of the game are nonmonetary, and
in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlements to goods or services
only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is less
than one hundred dollars (\$100.00).

C. No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and
regardless of the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or
labor performed at the site of the bingo game.

D. The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten hours of
any of the following:

​1. A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is conducted
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 to 2915.11 or Section
[630.06](2f39f2d4.html) et seq. of this chapter;

​2. A scheme or game of chance or bingo described in Section
[630.01](2e6c03fb.html)(o)(2).

E. The number of players participating in the bingo game does not exceed
fifty.

​(2) A. The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value as
an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than twenty-five
cents (25¢) to purchase a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the
spaces or other devices used in playing bingo.

B. The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for bingo
cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed one hundred dollars (\$100.00).

C. All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.

D. The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not exceed
one hundred dollars (\$100.00).

E. No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and
regardless of the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or
labor performed at the site of the bingo game.

F. The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of either
of the following:

​1. A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is conducted
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 to 2915.11 or Section
[630.06](2f39f2d4.html) et seq. of this chapter;

​2. A scheme of chance or game of chance or bingo described in Section
[630.01](2e6c03fb.html)(o)(2).

G. All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo game
is conducted.

H. The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and not
more than twice in a calendar week.

​(b) The Attorney General, or any local law enforcement agency, may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted
for purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the
purported amusement bingo game does not comply with subsection (a)
hereof. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the
proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement agency
gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.

(ORC 2915.12)
