---
layout: default
title: "634&#46;01 DEFINITIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

As used in this chapter:

(a) "Curfew hours" means the following periods of time:

Sunday evening curfew - 9:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day.

Monday evening curfew - 9:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day.

Tuesday evening curfew - 9:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day.

Wednesday evening curfew - 9:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day.

Thursday evening curfew - 9:30 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day.

Friday evening curfew - 12:01 a.m. Saturday to 6:00 a.m. Saturday.

Saturday evening curfew - 12:01 a.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Sunday.

(Ord. 467. Passed 10-4-73.)

(b) "Drive aimlessly" and "ride aimlessly" mean to drive or ride as a passenger in or upon any public place by an unnecessarily circuitous route, or to retrace the same route.

(c) "Establishment" means any privately owned place of business carried on for a profit or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public is invited.

(d) "Minor" means any person under the age of eighteen years.

(e) "Operator" means any person operating, managing or conducting an establishment. Whenever used in a clause prescribing a penalty, "operator", as applied to associations or partnerships includes the members or partners thereof and, as applied to a corporation, includes the officers thereof.

(f) "Parent" means any natural parent of a minor, a guardian or any adult person, twenty-one years of age or over, responsible for the care and custody of a minor.

(g) "Public place" means any public street, highway, road, alley, park, playground, public building or vacant lot.

(h) "Remain" means to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon.

(Ord. 402A. Passed 10-15-70.)