---
layout: default
title: "636&#46;14  MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) "9-1-1 system" means a system through which individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1. (ORC 4931.40)

(b) No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of the 9-1-1 system established under Ohio R.C. 4931.40 to 4931.70 to report an emergency if he knows that no emergency exists. 

(c) No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than obtaining emergency service.

(d) No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the data base that serves the public safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under Ohio R.C. 4931.40 to 4931.70, except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following circumstances:

(1) For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;

(2) For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency service provider;

(3) In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such information due solely to technology of the wireline telephone network portion of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the data base to be restricted to 9-1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;

(4) In the circumstance of access to a data base being given by a telephone company that is a wireline service provider to a public utility or municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of such information for the purpose of such access to a data base shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission.

(5) In the circumstance of access to a data base given by a telephone company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Public Utilities Commission. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for the purpose of access to a data base is subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission. (ORC 4931.49)

(e) (1) Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.

(2) Whoever violates subsection (c) or (d) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense. For each subsequent offense such person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law. (ORC 4931.99)