---
layout: default 
title: 636.17 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to a family or household member.

​(b) No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family
or household member.

​(c) No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent
physical harm to the family or household member.

​(d) (1) Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence.

​(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) to (5) of this
section, a violation of subsection (c) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree, and a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.

​(3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(4) of this section,
if the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of
domestic violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal
ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that is
substantially similar to domestic violence, a violation of Ohio R.C.
2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12, 2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim
of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the
violation, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or
law of this or any other state or the United States that is
substantially similar to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission
of the violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the
offense was a family or household member at the time of the commission
of the offense, a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this section is
a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a
violation of subsection (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.

​(4) If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations
or offenses of the type described in subsection (d)(3) of this section
involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of
the violations or offenses, a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this
section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law,
and a violation of subsection (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.

​(5) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d)(3) or (4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was
pregnant at the time of the violation, a violation of subsection (a) or
(b) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate State law, and a violation of subsection (c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.

​(e) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or
unit of local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money
in connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that
the person violated this section or in connection with the prosecution
of any charges so filed.

​(f) As used in this section:

​(1) "Family or household member" means any of the following:

A. Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:

​1. A spouse, a person living as a spouse or a former spouse of the
offender;

​2. A parent, a foster parent or a child of the offender, or another
person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;

​3. A parent, or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender; or another person related by
consanguinity or affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse or
former spouse of the offender.

B. The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the other
natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.

​(2) "Person living as a spouse" means a person who is living or has
lived with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who
otherwise is cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has
cohabited with the offender within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question. (ORC 2919.25)

​(g) The same relief available under the Ohio Revised Code for filing a
complaint for violation of Ohio R.C. 2919.25 shall be available for
filing a complaint for violation of this section.
