---
layout: default
title: "636&#46;175 TEMPORARY PROTECTION ORDER."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:

(1) A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2919.26 or 3113.31;

(2) A protection order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34, 2903.213 or 2903.214;

(3) A protection order issued by a court of another state.

(b) (1) Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a protection order.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b)(3) of this section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.

(3) If the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded guilty to or been adjudicated a delinquent child for a violation of a protection order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34, 2903.213 or 2903.214, two or more violations of Ohio R.C. 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or 2911.211 that involved the same person who is the subject of the protection order or consent agreement, or one or more violations of this section, violating a protection order is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.

(4) If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.

(5) If the protection order violated by the offender was an order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this subsection that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under Ohio R.C. 2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of funds from the reparations fund created pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2743.191. The total amount paid from the reparations fund created pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2743.191 for electronic monitoring under this section and Ohio R.C. 2151.34 and 2903.214 shall not exceed three hundred thousand dollars per year.

(c) It is an affirmative defense to a charge under subsection (a)(3) of this section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a protection order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this State or that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265(c).

(d) As used in this section, "protection order issued by a court of another state" means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to another person, including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking protection. "Protection order issued by a court of another state" does not include an order for support or for custody of a child. 

(ORC 2919.27)