642.04 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE; VEHICLE TRESPASS.
=======================================================

​(a) No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without
the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.

​(b) This section does not apply to property removed from the State or
if possession is kept for more than forty-eight hours.

​(c) The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this
section:

​(1) At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that the actor was authorized to use or operate the
property.

​(2) At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the
actor to use or operate the property.

​(d) No person shall knowingly enter into or upon a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent.

​(e) Whoever violates subsection (a) hereof is guilty of unauthorized
use of a vehicle, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of
the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of subsection
(a) hereof is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State
law.

(ORC 2913.03)

​(f) Whoever violates subsection (d) hereof is guilty of vehicle
trespass, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
