---
layout: default 
title: "642&#46;11 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall:

​(1) Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with the property of another;

​(2) With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other
device releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons
exposed, or that tends to cause public alarm;

​(3) Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker.

​(4) Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another or the property of the offender when required or placed for the
safety of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or
availability for its intended purpose;

​(5) With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property
that has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal
property is outside and apart from any building, other structure or
personal property that is on that land.

​(6) Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, all as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.01,
knowingly do any of the following:

A. In any manner or by any means, including, but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program;

B. Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software or computer program.

​(b) As used in this section, "safety device" means any fire
extinguisher, fire hose or fire axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit
or emergency escape equipment, or any life line, life-saving ring, life
preserver or life boat or raft, or any alarm, light, flare, signal, sign
or notice intended to warn of danger, or emergency, or intended for
other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety barricade, or any
traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign, signal or
gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety
of persons or property.

​(c) (1) Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in subsection (c)(2) or (3) of this
section.

​(2) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, criminal mischief
committed in violation of subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise
provided in this subsection, if the violation of subsection (a)(1), (2),
(3), (4) or (5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any
person, criminal mischief committed in violation of subsection (a)(1),
(2), (3), (4) or (5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the property involved in the violation of subsection (a)(1),
(2), (3), (4) or (5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any
other equipment, implement, or material used or intended to be used in
the operation of an aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be
carried in an aircraft, criminal mischief committed in violation of
subsection (a)(1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.

​(3) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, criminal mischief
committed in violation of subsection (a)(6) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, computer program or data
involved in the violation of subsection (a)(6) of this section or the
loss to the victim resulting from the violation is one thousand dollars
or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, computer program or data involved in the violation of
subsection (a)(6) of this section is used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft and the violation creates a risk of physical
harm to any person, criminal mischief committed in violation of
subsection (a)(6) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate State law.

(ORC 2909.07)
