642.33 INSURANCE FRAUD.
=======================

​(a) As used in this section:

​(1) "Data" has the same meaning as in Section[642.01](32386726.html)
and additionally includes any other representation of information,
knowledge, facts, concepts or instructions that are being or have been
prepared in a formalized manner.

​(2) "Deceptive" means that a statement, in whole or in part, would
cause another to be deceived because it contains a misleading
representation, withholds information, prevents the acquisition of
information or by any other conduct, act or omission creates, confirms
or perpetuates a false impression, including, but not limited to, a
false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other objective or
subjective fact.

​(3) "Insurer" means any person that is authorized to engage in the
business of insurance in this State under Title XXXIX of the Ohio
Revised Code; The Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting Association created under
Ohio R.C. 3929.43; any prepaid dental plan, medical care corporation,
health care corporation, dental care corporation or health maintenance
organization; and any legal entity that is self-insured and provides
benefits to its employees or members.

​(4) "Policy" means a policy, certificate, contract or plan that is
issued by an insurer.

​(5) "Statement" includes, but is not limited to, any notice, letter or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill
for services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical or
dental chart or other record; X-Ray, photograph, videotape or movie
film; test result; other evidence of loss, injury or expense;
computer-generated document; and data in any form.

​(b) No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:

​(1) Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written or
oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy or a claim for any
other benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any
part of the statement, is false or deceptive;

​(2) Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be
presented to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any
other benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any
part of the statement, is false or deceptive.

​(c) Whoever violates this section is guilty of insurance fraud a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is
false or deceptive is one thousand dollars (\$1,000) or more, insurance
fraud is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.

​(d) This section shall not be construed to abrogate, waive or modify
Ohio R.C. 2317.02(A). (ORC 2913.47)
