---
layout: default 
title: 646.02 ACTIVITIES.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) All league use of athletic fields must be scheduled through the
Parks and Recreation Director.

​(b) No person shall solicit funds or operate games of chance.

​(c) No person shall engage in any parade, drill, demonstration or
procession of any kind which materially interferes with usual park
activity, except with the written permission of the Park Board and,
where permission is granted, under such rules and conditions as may be
required by the Park Board.

​(d) No alcoholic beverages shall be permitted, except upon written
request approved in writing by the City Manager, following approval by
Council.

​(e) No person shall carry illegal drugs onto park property.

​(f) No person shall carry glass containers onto park property.

​(g) No person shall operate mechanical or electrical amplification
devices, capable of carrying sound beyond the boundaries of park
property, onto park property unless a City of Springboro activity permit
therefor has been obtained.

​(h) Use of the tennis and basketball courts shall be on a first come,
first served basis. Use shall be limited to one hour sessions when
others are waiting to use the facility.

​(i) Tennis courts shall be used for tennis only.

​(j) Basketball courts may be used for rollerblading only when no person
is waiting to use the courts for basketball.

​(k) No person shall hunt, trap or in any other way capture, abuse,
molest, injure, chase or destroy any animal, bird or other wildlife of
any species or description on park property.

​(l) No person shall play or practice golf on park property.

(Ord. 95-28. Passed 6-15-95.)
