---
layout: default
title: "648&#46;06  MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person shall knowingly do any of the following:

(1) Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or other authorized person, engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;

(2) Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who is engaged in the person's duties in an emergency facility;

(3) Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.

(b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news media representative's duties.

(c) Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, misconduct at an emergency is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a violation of this section creates a risk of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a misdemeanor of the first degree.

(d) As used in this section:

(1) "Emergency medical services person" is the singular of "emergency medical services personnel" as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.

(2) "Emergency facility person" is the singular of "emergency facility personnel" as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.

(3) "Emergency facility" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.