---
layout: default 
title: "660.01 VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) A brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace, water
heater or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel,
and tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gas:

​(1) When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent
so designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of
combustion outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings
which are provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of
carbon monoxide poisoning;

​(2) When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons
are temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in subsection (a)
hereof, or used with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of
carbon monoxide poisoning.

​(b) This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates,
unless the same are used as space or room heaters.

​(c) No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner
or heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation
provided in this section.

​(d) Subsection (a) hereof does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or
room heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over
device, or to any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space
or room heater that is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shutoff
system, and that has its fuel piped from a source outside of the
building in which it is located, that are approved by an authoritative
source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code
adopted by him under Ohio R.C. 3737.82.

​(e) The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted
from subsection (a) hereof when used in assembly buildings, business
buildings, high hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile
buildings and type R-1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of
buildings are defined in rules adopted by the Board of Building
Standards under Ohio R.C. 3781.10. No person shall negligently use, or,
being the owner, person in charge or occupant of premises, negligently
permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules adopted under this
subsection.

​(f) The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of
any potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for
sale any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the
manufacturer provides with the heater written instructions that comply
with any rules adopted under this subsection.

​(g) No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and
having a flash point below one hundred degrees fahrenheit or
thirty-seven and eight-tenths degrees centigrade shall be sold, offered
for sale or used in any kerosene space heater.

​(h) No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold,
offered for sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas space heater.

​(i) No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from
subsection (a) hereof unless it is marked conspicuously by the
manufacturer on the container with the phrase "Not Approved For Home
Use."

​(j) No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired
heater having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building,
except as permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code
adopted by him under Ohio R.C. 3737.82. (ORC 3701.82)

​(k) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.

(ORC 3701.99(C))
