---
layout: default
title: "660&#46;07 STORAGE OF JUNK VEHICLES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) As used in this section:

(1) "Inoperable motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle which cannot be driven or moved under its own power as a consequence of lacking wheels or tires, an engine, generator, battery, ignition system or other part or component part of such vehicle necessary to the starting, driving or moving of such vehicle under its own power. "Inoperable motor vehicle" also means any vehicle under repair as defined herein.

(2) "Vehicle under repair" means a motor vehicle that has current registration tags displayed and is operable before or after repairs are made.

(3) "Vehicle repair facility" means a repair garage or body shop which performs any major mechanical or body work, major engine repairs, straightening of body parts, painting or welding. The term "vehicle repair facility" as used in this section does not include filling stations as defined in Section [1260.05](4c942bd2.html)(15) of the Codified Ordinances.

(b) The storing or parking of any inoperable motor vehicle on private property in the Municipality, which is visible to the public, and the storing or parking of a vehicle under repair in excess of seven days within 500 feet of a residential zone unless screened as set forth hereafter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance because of the public safety, fire and other hazards associated with the same.

(c) No person shall store or park any inoperable motor vehicle on any private property in the Municipality, which is visible to the public.

(d) No person, being the owner of private property in the Municipality or being a resident upon private property in the Municipality, shall permit an inoperable motor vehicle to be stored or parked in excess of seventy-two hours on the property which such person owns or upon which such person resides.

(e) No person, being the owner or operator of a vehicle repair facility, shall permit a vehicle under repair to be stored or parked on private property in excess of seven days if said vehicle repair facility is within 500 feet of a residential zone, unless the vehicle is screened on all sides from public view as provided below.

(1) Such screening shall consist of a wooden fence with a minimum height of six feet and a maximum height of eight feet with fence boards spaced no more than one and one-half inches. A minimum of one gate shall be provided with a minimum width of eight feet. All gates shall be of the same style and material as the fence and shall remain closed when vehicles are not being moved. All fences installed shall conform to the fence permitting regulations of the City. The fence shall not use any type of exposed electric wires for security.

(f) When it is determined that any person is storing or parking an inoperable motor vehicle, or is permitting such vehicle to be stored or parked, in violation of this section, such person shall be immediately notified of this section by the police and, upon failure of such person to conform with this section within seventy-two hours, such person shall be charged with a violation of this section.

(g) Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. Punishment shall be as provided in Section [698.02](38e2f631.html).

(Ord. 96-28. Passed 4-4-96.)