---
layout: default 
title: "660&#46;16 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY&#46;"---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) As used in this section, "place of public assembly" means:

​(1) Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room
in a rest home serving as the residence of a person living in such rest
home;

​(2) All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the State, its
agencies or political subdivisions, including but not limited to
hospitals and State institutions for the mentally retarded and the
mentally ill; university and college buildings, except rooms within
those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings;
libraries; museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That
portion of a building or other enclosed structure that is owned by the
State, a State agency or a political subdivision and that is used
primarily as a food service establishment is not a place of public
assembly.

​(3) Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in subsection (a)(1) or (2) hereof is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of fifty or more persons and is
available to the public. Restaurants, food service establishments,
dining rooms, cafes, cafeterias or other rooms used primarily for the
service of food, as well as bowling alleys and places licensed by the
Department of Liquor Control to sell intoxicating beverages for
consumption on the premises, are not places of public assembly.

​(b) For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every
place of public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not
permitted, which shall be designated a no smoking area. Provided that,
no more than one-half of the rooms in any health care facility in which
persons are confined as a matter of health care may be designated as
smoking areas in their entirety. The designation shall be made before
the place of public assembly is made available to the public. In places
included in subsection (a)(1) hereof the local fire authority having
jurisdiction shall designate no smoking area. In places included in
subsection (a)(2) hereof that are owned by the Municipality, Council
shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in subsection (a)(3) hereof, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no
smoking area. In places included in subsection (a)(2) hereof which are
also included in subsection (a)(1) hereof, the officer who has authority
to designate the area in places in subsection (a)(2) hereof shall
designate the no smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire
place of public assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of
signs that are clearly visible and that state "NO SMOKING". No person
shall remove signs from areas designated as no smoking areas.

​(c) This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
Ohio R.C. 3313.751(B).

​(d) No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area
in accordance with subsection (b) hereof or Ohio R.C. 3791.031.

​(e) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.

(ORC 3791.031)
