---
layout: default 
title: 660.17 UNDESIRABLE ACCUMULATIONS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Definitions. As used in this section:

​(1) "Automobile part" means and includes any portion or part of a motor
vehicle, as detached from the vehicle as a whole.

​(2) "Refuse" means only such matter as is either in fact noxious or has
been refused and abandoned by its owner as worthless.

​(3) "Rubbish" means and includes wire, chips, shavings, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, tin, cast or wooden ware, boxes, rags, dead weeds,
stumps, tree trunks, brush, paper circulars, handbills, boots, shoes,
ashes, garbage, offal or any waste material.

​(4) "Scrap metal" means and includes pieces or parts of steel, iron,
tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or any alloy thereof, whether covered with
porcelain or any other material or whether intact or in parts, which has
served its usefulness in its original and can no longer be used or
useful for its originally intended purpose.

​(5) "Used building material" means and includes any material, such as
wood, stone, brick, cement block or any composition thereof, used or
useful in the erection of a building or structure, which has been used
previously for such erection or construction by the same person or by
any other person.

​(b) Storage of Certain Materials Declared a Nuisance. No person shall
store, place or allow to remain used building materials, automobile
parts, scrap metal, refuse or rubbish on any lot, part of a lot or
parcel of land in the Municipality. A violation of this subsection is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.

​(c) Notices to Abate; Violations.

​(1) In the event of a violation of subsection (b) hereof, the Manager
shall give notice to the owner, occupant or person having charge of the
premises upon which the violation occurs to cease such violation. Such
notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the owner, occupant
or person having charge of the premises, either personally or at the
usual place of residence of such owner, occupant or person having charge
of such premises, or by registered or certified mail addressed to such
person's last known place of residence.

​(2) If the person served with such notice fails to cause such violation
to cease within forty-eight hours of the date upon which the notice was
issued, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in subsection
(e) hereof. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which the violation occurs or continues beyond such forty-eight
hour period, and no additional notice of violation is required to be
given.

​(d) Building Materials. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
(b) hereof, it shall not be unlawful for any person to purchase used
building materials and place or store them on a lot, part of a lot or
parcel of land, when such materials are to be used by the purchaser or
owner in later construction on the same lot or on any lot owned or
controlled by such person, provided that such materials shall not remain
on such lot, part of a lot or parcel of land for more than thirty days,
unless the construction planned for the use of such materials has
commenced, and provided, further, that such materials are used or
consumed in the construction or removed from the premises within four
months from the time such materials are first placed on the lot, part of
a lot or parcel of land. No person shall move any materials so stored or
placed to another location within the Municipality for the purpose of
avoiding the intent of this section, except that any such materials may
be moved to another lot, part of a lot or parcel of land, when the same
have been sold to a bona fide purchaser for value for such purchaser's
own use.

(Ord. 637. Passed 5-5-77.)

​(e) Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Punishment shall be as provided in Section [698.02](38e2f631.html).
