---
layout: default 
title: "660&#46;18 OUTDOOR PARKING AND STORAGE ON PREMISES ZONED AND USED FOR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USE."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Outdoor Parking of Smaller Motor Vehicles. Vehicles which are
self-propelled, licensable for operation on a public street, and
maintained in such condition as to be readily started and safely
operable on a public street may be parked on any paved surface on the
premises continuously connected to the paving of a public street or
alley, provided that the following additional requirements are met:

​(1) The overall dimensions of such vehicle shall not exceed eight feet
in width, twenty feet in length and eight feet in height.

​(2) Such vehicles shall not exceed 7,000 pounds.

​(b) Outdoor Parking of Larger Motor Vehicles. Vehicles which are
self-propelled, licensable for operation on a public street, and in such
condition as to be readily started and safely operable on a public
street, but which exceed any of the size or weight limitations
identified in subsection (a) hereof may be parked only on a paved
surface continuously connected to the paving of a public street or
alley, but may not be parked within the required front yard of the
premises, as established by municipal zoning. Only one such vehicle can
be a commercial vehicle.

​(c) Temporary Parking of Larger Vehicles by Visitors. Vehicles
described in subsection (b) hereof which are the property of visitors to
the residents of the premises may be parked on any paved surface,
including within the required front yard, for periods totaling not more
than thirty days in any twelve month period. No more than one such
vehicle, in addition to those of the occupant of the premises, may be
parked on the premises. Oversized vehicles of visitors which have
commercial license plates may be parked in residential zoning districts
only pursuant to subsection (d) hereof.

​(d) Temporary Parking of Larger Vehicles for Delivery Purposes.
Vehicles described in subsection (b) hereof may be parked on any paved
surface on the premises, including within the front yard, for periods
totaling not more than seventy-two hours in any thirty day period, for
the purpose of loading or unloading.

​(e) Standards for Paved Parking Spaces and Drives. All paved parking
spaces and drives utilized by vehicles pursuant to subsections (a), (b)
and (c) hereof shall be at least one foot wider and longer than the
vehicle being parked.

​(f) Outdoor Storage of Trailers and Other Equipment.

​(1) Trailers, campers, boats, snowmobiles, aircraft and other large
items of recreational, household or business equipment which are not
routinely and lawfully operated or used on the premises, and which
cannot be readily, routinely and lawfully driven on the public streets
under their own power shall be deemed stored, not parked.

If in fully operable condition, such items may be stored outdoors, but
only within the rear yard of the premises and where stored, shall be
clustered: All items must be stored within one area not to exceed eight
feet in width or thirty feet in length.

Outdoor storage clustered as required above shall be screened with an
opaque fence or opaque evergreen hedge six feet in height, or of a
lesser height if sufficient to conceal all stored items from a
horizontal line of sight.

The entire area utilized for outdoor storage shall be paved with
concrete, asphalt or other nonporous surface which cannot grow
vegetation.

No vehicles or equipment may be stored in any location which displaces
or obstructs the off-street parking spaces minimally required for the
premises.

​(2) Inoperable, incomplete, disabled, dilapidated or junk vehicles,
watercraft, aircraft and other large recreational, household or business
equipment shall not be stored outdoors at any location on the premises.

​(g) Indoor Parking and Storage. Although health and safety laws may
impose additional restrictions, nothing in this section shall prohibit
the parking or storage, in a fully-enclosed indoor space, of any vehicle
or equipment, regardless of its condition.

​(h) Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Punishment shall be as provided in Section [698.02](38e2f631.html).

(Ord. 97-13. Passed 2-20-97.)
