---
layout: default 
title: 666.04 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have
sexual contact with the offender; or cause two or more persons to have
sexual contact when any of the following applies:

​(1) The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that
regard.

​(2) The offender knows that the other person's or one of the other
person's ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender's or
touching person's conduct is substantially impaired.

​(3) The offender knows that the other person or one of the other
persons submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.

​(4) The other person or one of the other persons is thirteen years of
age or older but less than sixteen years of age, whether or not the
offender knows the age of such person, and the offender is at least
eighteen years of age and four or more years older than such other
person.

​(5) The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the
offender, and the offender induces the other person who is the client or
patient to submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the
client or patient that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health
treatment purposes.

​(b) No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.

​(c) Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04,
2907.05, 2907.06 or 2907.12, or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. (ORC 2907.06)
