---
layout: default 
title: "668.03 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCES OR VACATE PREMISES."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Whenever the County Board of Health ascertains from examination or
reports of its inspectors or sanitary officers or otherwise that a
public nuisance exists, as provided in Section [668.02](372c6d5f.html),
in or upon any structure, building or portion thereof, and is of the
opinion that such nuisance is capable of being abated without immediate
vacation of such structure, building or portion thereof, and serves
notice upon the owner of such structure or building, or his or her
lessee or agent, or the person in possession, charge or control thereof,
directing such person to abate such nuisance and remove the unclean or
unsanitary conditions within such reasonable time as may be fixed by the
Board and specified in such notice, such person shall abate such
nuisance within such time. Whenever such abatement does not take place
within such time, or whenever, in the opinion of the Board, such
abatement is impossible or impractical without an immediate vacation of
such structure, building or portion thereof, and the Board serves notice
upon such person to vacate or cause the vacation of such structure,
building or portion thereof designated in the notice, then it shall be
the duty of such person to vacate or cause the vacation of such
structure, building or portion thereof within twenty days from the date
of the service of such notice, or within a shorter time (not less than
twenty-four hours in any case) as may be specified in such notice.
Whenever, either in addition to or without the service of such notice on
such person, the Board is of the opinion that such nuisance can be
abated by a tenant or other occupant of such structure, building or
portion thereof, and such notice, either for abatement of the nuisance
or for vacation of the premises, is served upon such tenant or other
occupant, then it shall be the duty of such tenant or other occupant to
comply with the terms of such notice and to abate the nuisance or vacate
the premises accordingly. After the receipt of any such notice, no
person shall occupy or permit the occupancy of such premises or portion
thereof until such nuisance has been completely abated and such
structure, building or portion thereof has been rendered clean and
sanitary in accordance with the terms of such notices of the Board of
Health. When there is no owner, agent, lessee or person in charge,
possession or control, who is a resident of or can be served in the
Municipality, then personal service outside of the Municipality on any
such owner, agent, lessee or person in charge, possession or control, by
anyone delegated by the Board to make such service, or service by
registered letter, or if the address of the owner, lessee, agent or
person in possession, charge or control is unknown, or service is not
secured by registered letter after effort to do so, then service by
publication once a week for two consecutive weeks in any newspaper of
general circulation in the Municipality, or by posting or attaching to
or on the outside of such structure or building of a copy of the notice
or order consecutively for two weeks, shall have the same effect as
service within the Municipality. (1977 Code Sec. 94.07)

​(b) Whoever violates or fails to comply with this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor. Punishment shall be as provided in Section
[698.02](38e2f631.html).
