672.05 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
=======================================================

​(a) Upon application to the Safety Director or Police Chief of the
Municipality, and upon payment of the fee specified in subsection (b)
hereof, a license or temporary permit shall be issued to qualified
applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use dangerous ordnance, for the
following purposes:

​(1) Contractors, wreckers, quarrymen, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business,
with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed,
carried or used in the course of such business;

​(2) Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by
them;

​(3) Scientists, engineers and instructors, with respect to dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction;

​(4) Financial institution and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by
any such person while acting within the scope of his duties;

​(5) In the discretion of the Safety Director or Police Chief, any
responsible person, with respect to dangerous ordnance lawfully
acquired, possessed, carried or used for a legitimate research,
scientific, educational, industrial or other proper purpose.

​(b) Application for a license or temporary permit under this section
shall be in writing under oath to the Safety Director or Police Chief of
the Municipality. The application shall be accompanied by an application
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) when the application is for a license,
and an application fee of five dollars ($5.00) when the application is
for a temporary permit. The fees shall be paid into the General Fund of
the Municipality. The application shall contain the following
information:

​(1) The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if he is a natural person, or the name, address and principal
place of business of the applicant, if the applicant is a corporation;

​(2) A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested;

​(3) A description of the place or places where and the manner in which
the dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried and used;

​(4) A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used;

​(5) Such other information as the Safety Director or Police Chief may
require in giving effect to this section.

​(c) Upon investigation, the Safety Director or Police Chief shall issue
a license or temporary permit only if all of the following apply:

​(1) The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using dangerous ordnance;

​(2) The applicant is age twenty-one or over, if he is a natural person;

​(3) It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous
ordnance and ensure the safety of persons and property;

​(4) It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.

​(d) The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom
it is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the
purposes for which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the
expiration date, if any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition,
possession, carriage or use of the dangerous ordnance as the Safety
Director or Police Chief considers advisable to protect the security of
the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons and property.

​(e) A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within thirty days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for
the regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance or for any
nonconsumable dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an
expiration date, but the Safety Director or Police Chief may specify
such expiration date, not earlier than one year from the date of
issuance, as he considers advisable in view of the nature of the
dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.

​(f) The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit
may be obtained by the holder anywhere in the State. The holder of a
license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the State. The
holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the Municipality.

​(g) The Safety Director or Police Chief shall forward to the State Fire
Marshal a copy of such license or temporary permit issued pursuant to
this section, and a copy of each record of a transaction in dangerous
ordnance and of each report of lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given
to the Police Department as required by Section
[672.07](381fd747.html)(a)(2) and (3).

(ORC 2923.18)
