---
layout: default
title: "672&#46;12 DEFACING IDENTIFICATION MARKS OF A FIREARM; POSSESSING A DEFACED FIREARM."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) No person shall do either of the following:

(1) Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer's serial number, or other mark or identification on a firearm.

(2) Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer's serial number, or other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed, or obliterated.

(b) (1) Whoever violates subsection (a)(1) of this section is guilty of defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.

(2) Whoever violates subsection (a)(2) of this section is guilty of possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of subsection (a)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate State law.

  (ORC 2923.201)