678.02 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITED AREAS OF GROWTH.
=========================================================

​(a) No person shall permit any weeds, grass or plants, other than
trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding eighteen inches in the following areas of the Municipality:

​(1) Within the front yard building setback area, as established by the
Zoning Code, of any lot or parcel of more than one but less than five
acres in size;

​(2) Within the side or rear lot line of any lot or parcel of more than
one but less than five acres in size, which is abutted by an occupied
residential property, to a depth, from the lot line abutting such
residential property, equal to the front yard building setback required,
as established by the Zoning Code for that lot or parcel;

​(3) Within the side or rear lot line of any lot or parcel of more than
one but less than five acres in size, which is abutted by a commercial
property, to a depth of 100 feet from the nearest building in the
abutting commercial property;

​(4) On any parcel equal to or exceeding five acres in size, from the
public right of way to the crop line, established fence line or front
yard building set-back line, as established by the Zoning Code,
whichever occurs closest to the public right of way;

​(5) On any parcel equal to or exceeding five acres in size, from the
lot line abutting an occupied residential property to the crop line,
established fence line or a depth equal to the front yard building
set-back line, as established by the Zoning Code, whichever occurs
closest to the abutting residential property; or

​(6) On any parcel equal to or exceeding five acres in size, from the
lot line abutting an occupied commercial property to the crop line,
established fence line or a depth of 100 feet from the nearest building
on the abutting commercial property.

Plants or weeds exceeding such height in the above specified areas are
hereby declared to be a nuisance.

​(b) No person shall permit any weeds, grass or plants other than trees,
bushes, flowers or ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding
eight inches in the following areas of the Municipality:

​(1) Within any improved lot of one acre or less in size.

​(2) Within any unimproved lot of one acre or less in size abutted by an
occupied residential property.

Plants, weeds or grass exceeding such height in the above specified
areas are hereby declared to be a nuisance.

​(c) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Punishment shall be as provided in Section [698.02](38e2f631.html).

(Ord. 0-86-29. Passed 6-19-86.)
