---
layout: default 
title: 698.03 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) In determining whether to impose imprisonment or a fine, or both,
for misdemeanor, and in determining the term of imprisonment and the
amount and method of payment of a fine, the court shall consider the
risk that the offender will commit another offense and the need for
protecting the public therefrom, the nature and circumstances of the
offense, the history, character and condition of the offender and his
need for correctional or rehabilitative treatment, and the ability and
resources of the offender and the nature of the burden that payment of a
fine will impose on him.

​(b) The following do not control the court's discretion, but shall be
considered in favor of imposing imprisonment for misdemeanor:

​(1) The offender is a repeat or dangerous offender;

​(2) Regardless of whether or not the offender knew the age of the
victim, the victim of the offense was sixty-five years of age or older
or permanently and totally disabled at the time of the commission of the
offense.

​(c) The criteria listed in Ohio R. C. 2929.12, favoring shorter terms
of imprisonment for felony, do not control the court's discretion, but
shall be considered against imposing imprisonment for misdemeanor.

​(d) The criteria listed in subsections (b) and (c) hereof shall not be
construed to limit the matters which may be considered in determining
whether to impose imprisonment for misdemeanor.

​(e) The court shall not impose a fine in addition to imprisonment for
misdemeanor, unless a fine is specially adapted to deterrence of the
offense or the correction of the offender, or the offense has
proximately resulted in physical harm to the person or property of
another, or the offense was committed for hire or for purpose of gain.

​(f) The court shall not impose a fine or fines which, in the aggregate
and to the extent not suspended by the court, exceeds the amount which
the offender is or will be able to pay by the method and within the time
allowed without undue hardship to himself or his dependents, or will
prevent him from making restitution or reparation to the victim of his
offense.

​(g) At the time of sentencing or as soon as possible after sentencing,
the court shall notify the victim of the offense of his right to file an
application for an award of reparations pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2743.51
through 2743.72. (ORC 2929.22)
