---
layout: default 
title: 698.04 ORGANIZATIONAL PENALTIES.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Regardless of the penalties provided in Section
[606.08](38e2f631.html) shall be fined, which fine shall be fixed by the
court as follows:

​(1) For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than five thousand
dollars (\$5,000);

​(2) For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than four thousand
dollars (\$4,000);

​(3) For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than three thousand
dollars (\$3,000);

​(4) For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than two thousand
dollars (\$2,000);

​(5) For a minor misdemeanor, not more than one thousand dollars
(\$1,000);

​(6) For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than two
thousand dollars (\$2,000);

​(7) For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
one thousand dollars (\$1,000) .

​(b) When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly
indicates a purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon
organizations, then such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty
provided in this section.

​(c) When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that
provided in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to
the penalty provided for violation of the section defining the offense.

​(d) This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to
Section [606.08](297e73eb.html), either in addition to or in lieu of a
fine imposed pursuant to this section. (ORC 2929.31)
