---
layout: default 
title: 822.02 DEFINITIONS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

As used in this chapter:

​(a) "Junk" means old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, trash, waste,
batteries, paper, rubber, junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or
parts thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous
materials.

​(b) "Junk yard" means an establishment or place of business, which is
maintained or operated for the purpose of storing, keeping, buying or
selling junk, or for the maintenance or operation of an automobile
graveyard, and includes garbage dumps and sanitary landfills. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term "junk yard" also includes scrap metal
processing facilities and any site, location or premise on which are
permanently or temporarily stored two or more junk motor vehicles,
whether or not for a commercial purpose.

​(c) "Automobile graveyard" means any establishment or place of business
which is maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or
selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor
vehicle parts.

​(d) "Scrap metal processing facility" means an establishment having
facilities for processing iron, steel or nonferrous scrap and whose
principal product is scrap iron and steel or nonferrous scrap for sale
for remelting purposes.

​(e) "Junk motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle which is in wrecked or
worn-out condition and unfit for operation as a motor vehicle, except a
collector's vehicle.

​(f) "Collector's vehicle" means any motor vehicle or agricultural
tractor or traction engine of special interest having a fair market
value of one hundred dollars (\$100.00) or more, whether operable or
not, that is owned, operated, collected, preserved, restored, maintained
or used essentially as a collector's item, leisure pursuit or
investment, but not as the owner's principal means of transportation.
"Licensed collector's vehicle" means a collector's vehicle, other than
an agricultural tractor or traction engine, that displays current, valid
license tags issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.45, or a similar type of motor
vehicle that displays current, valid license tags issued under
substantially equivalent provisions in the laws of other states.

(Ord. 89-107. Passed 12-7-89.)
