---
layout: default 
title: 826.05 REGULATED SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Only the following types of regulated signs do not require a permit.
They are not advertising signs for the purpose of inclusion in total
message area, but must conform to all other regulations of this chapter:

​(a) Signs of not-for-profit civic organizations and churches
incorporated into corporate limit signs when space is available and such
signs conform to regulations established by the City Manager.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 9-19-02.)

​(b) Direction/information signs. These signs may be ground signs only,
shall be limited to four (4) square feet in message area and three (3)
feet in height, and shall not be included in the calculation of message
area.

(Ord. 02-55. Passed 11-7-02.)

​(c) Domestic advertising signs, provided the following requirements are
met:

​(1) Domestic advertising signs have no setback requirements, but shall
not be located within the right-of-way of any public street or on any
public lands or easements.

​(2) The total message area of all domestic advertising signs on a
parcel shall not exceed four square feet.

​(3) Because domestic advertising signs are often incompatible with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood, they are permitted on a
temporary basis only. No person shall display a domestic advertising
sign for a time period greater than nine days within a twelve month
period. It shall be presumed that the sale which is being advertised is
in operation over the same length of time which the sign is displayed.
Sales operating more than nine days in any twelve month period shall be
considered retail businesses, subject to zoning restrictions.

​(d) Street numbers.

​(e) Nameplates.

​(f) Real estate signs.

​(g) Real estate open house signs less than four square feet in message
area displayed only during the period commencing forty-eight hours
before the hours during which an open house showing of real property for
sale, lease or rent is actually being conducted, and ending two hours
after the open house is concluded.

​(h) New business signs.

​(i) Window signs, where permitted.

​(j) Telephone signs.

​(k) Vending machine signs. (Ord. 96-38. Passed 9-19-02.)

​(l) Political signs, providing the following requirements are met:

​(1) Political signs are permitted without limitation as to number, size
or location, except that such signs shall not be located in the public
right-of-way or easements without the permission of the public agency in
possession.

​(2) Political signs shall not be constructed, installed or located so
as to constitute a hazardous sign.

(Ord. 02-49. Passed 9-19-02.)
