---
layout: default 
title: 826.06 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL SIGN DISTRICTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The following signs are permitted throughout the City subject to the
regulations set forth below and any applicable district regulations.
They are not advertising signs for the purpose of calculating total
message area, but must conform to all other regulations of this chapter,
and do require a permit.

​(a) Construction signs, provided the following requirements are met:

​(1) One construction sign up to ninety-six square feet in message area
shall be permitted at each permanent public access to a residential,
office, commercial or industrial building or development which is
actively under construction.

​(2) Construction signs shall be permitted only during the period
beginning with actual construction and ending with the completion of the
building or development.

​(3) Construction signs shall meet the setback requirements of the
district wherein located as if the sign were a building.

​(4) Construction signs may state the name and type of development,
names of architects and contractors and their addresses, and drawings of
the development under construction; however, no prices for sale, lease
or rent shall be stated in a construction sign.

​(b) Signs on water towers in excess of forty-five feet in height,
stating only the name of the company utilizing the water tower, and not
exceeding 200 square feet in message area. The message area shall be
entirely within the upper one-third of the tower's height. Signs on
water towers less than forty-five feet in height shall be subject to
sign district regulations as if they were not on a water tower. Water
towers shall not be considered double-sided signs.

​(c) Identification signs for industrial, commercial or residential
developments which include more than one owner or tenant. Permit
requests for identification signs shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission, and granted only if the Commission determines that all the
following requirements are met:

​(1) Identification signs shall be limited to major development
entrances and minor entrances within developments, as determined by the
Planning Commission. Each sign shall not exceed forty square feet in
message area on thoroughfares where the speed limit is less than forty
mph or sixty square feet on thoroughfares where the speed limit is forty
mph or greater.

​(2) Identification signs shall not exceed six feet in height in
residential sign districts, and ten feet in height in commercial and
industrial sign districts.

​(3) Identification signs have no required setback and may be located
within the right-of-way upon written approval of the specific size,
design and location by the City Engineer and if such location is
significantly more beneficial to the public interest than any location
on private property.

​(4) The proposed identification sign shall be designed for aesthetic
compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood.

​(5) The public safety or convenience would be adversely affected by the
lack of such identification sign, and the sign is therefore in the
public interest.

​(6) A satisfactory performance guaranty has been posted with the City
assuring completion of the public improvements in the development.

​(7) The number of identification signs related to the development is
functionally justified and compatible with the design, site and
character of the development.

​(d) Telephone signs.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(e) Community event signs as defined in Section
[826.03](3a2f3d6a.html)(a)(53), provided the following requirements are
met:

​(1) Only one permit shall be required for all community event signs
erected within the City by a particular person or entity related to a
particular community event. The permit form shall require the name of
the organization sponsoring the event; the name, address, telephone
number, and e-mail address of the person responsible for the maintenance
and removal of the signs; a list of addresses indicating the proposed
locations of the signs; and the dates of sign erection and removal.

​(2) No more than two (2) community events may be advertised with
community event signs by the organization during any calendar year.
There shall be a minimum thirty (30) day separation between the periods
of display of signs related to different events.

​(3) No more than fifteen (15) signs shall be erected within the
community under a single permit. This number may consist of the
following at a maximum:

A. One (1) on-premise community event sign. This sign shall be a maximum
of fifteen (15) square feet per side.

B. Fourteen (14) off-premises community event signs. These signs shall
be a maximum of nine (9) square feet per side.

​(4) No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-way or public access
easement or within eight (8) feet of any such right-of-way or easement.
No sign may be located so as to materially impede vision between a
height of two and one-half (2 1/2) and eight (8) feet above the
centerline grades of intersecting streets or driveways, measured thirty
(30) feet from the intersection of such streets and driveways, or in any
other location which creates a hazard, in the opinion of the City
Engineer.

​(5) No sign shall be located on other public lands without the
permission of the public agency having ownership of such lands.

​(6) No sign may be affixed to a tree or other plant material, utility
pole, public bench, street furniture, street light or other object,
other than a building.

​(7) No sign shall be constructed of materials which are not substantial
enough to resist wind damage and undue weathering during the period of
display.

​(8) No sign shall exceed six (6) feet in height.

​(9) No sign shall be erected earlier than fourteen (14) calendar days
prior to the event, and all signs must be removed within three (3) days
of the completion of the event.

​(10) No more than one (1) sign may be erected on a property at any
given time.

​(11) No fee shall be required for a permit under this section.

(Ord. 02-2. Passed 1-3-02.)
