---
layout: default 
title: "826.07 SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL SIGN DISTRICTS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The following types of signs are prohibited in all sign districts unless
specifically excepted below or expressly permitted within the applicable
district regulations:

​(a) Hazardous signs.

​(b) Signs imitating or resembling official traffic or governmental
signs or signals.

​(c) Animated signs. (Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(d) Signs placed over any public right-of-way or on public lands,
including but not limited to signs attached to trees, utility poles,
public benches or street lights, unless expressly permitted by this
chapter or by written permission of the City. Wall signs shall not be
deemed to extend over a public right-of-way by virtue of their thickness
or other extension beyond the surface of the building, provided that
such thickness or extension does not exceed six (6) inches from the face
of the building to the face of the sign. (Ord. 02-55. Passed 11-7-02.)

​(e) Portable signs.

​(f) Wall signs exceeding 500 square feet in message area, or extending
above or beyond the surface to which they are attached.

​(g) Ground signs exceeding 300 square feet in message area.

​(h) Multi-faced signs.

​(i) Double-faced signs having faces which are not parallel and
congruent or which are more than six inches apart.

​(j) Roof signs.

​(k) Projecting signs, except in architectural sign districts.

​(l) Soffit signs which extend beyond the fascia.

​(m) Mobile signs which are parked or located for the primary purpose of
display and which are not regularly driven or towed in the normal course
of business.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(n) Signs utilizing "dayglo" colors.

(Ord. 02-6. Passed 1-17-02.)

​(o) Any functional or structural sign type or classification which is
not clearly identified, defined and permitted by this chapter.
**DISTRICT REGULATIONS**

The following regulations apply within the geographic districts
designated on the official Sign District Map, Section
[826.26](3bed9ca6.html).

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)
