---
layout: default 
title: 826.08 SIGNS PERMITTED IN INDUSTRIAL SIGN
DISTRICTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Only the following functional classes of signs are permitted on a
parcel, subject to the limitations stated below and elsewhere in this
chapter:

​(1) Advertising signs.

​(2) Real estate signs. The sum of the message areas of all real estate
signs shall not exceed thirty-two square feet for each side of the
parcel with street frontage.

​(3) Real estate open house signs.

​(4) New business signs.

​(5) Vending machine signs.

​(6) Signs listed under Sections [826.06](3a854a95.html).

​(b) Advertising Signs. Advertising signs shall meet the following
requirements:

​(1) Allowable message area. The allowable message area is calculated as
follows:

A. Where the principal building has a floor area of 10,000 square feet
or less, fifteen square feet for each 1,000 square feet, or fraction
thereof, of floor area of the principal building.

B. Where the principal building is over 10,000 square feet, 150 square
feet for the first 10,000 square feet, plus five square feet for each
additional 1,000 square feet of floor area over the first 10,000 square
feet.

C. Where the name of the premises, such as that of a multiple occupancy
industrial building, is distinct from that of any occupant, additional
allowable message area may be used for the sole purpose of stating the
name of the premises. The additional allowable message area is fifty
square feet for a development of one acre or less, plus twenty square
feet for each additional acre or fraction thereof. (Ord. 96-38. Passed
7-11-96.)

​(c) Limitations on Wall Signs. Only one wall sign per occupant space
shall be permitted, unless the parcel has no ground sign. In that event,
one wall sign in addition to those otherwise permitted on the parcel
shall be allowed, provided that all advertising signs on the parcel
remain within the allowable message area. Wall signs shall be separated
by a minimum of five feet. (Ord. 00-55. Passed 10-19-00.)

​(d) Limitations on Ground Signs. Only one ground sign is permitted on
each side of the parcel with street frontage.

​(1) Ground signs shall maintain a minimum setback of twenty-five feet,
and shall not exceed twenty feet in height.

​(2) The maximum message area at the twenty-five foot setback is 100
square feet. Signs larger than 100 square feet will be required to
maintain an additional one foot setback for each eight square feet, or
fraction thereof, that the message area is increased.

​(e) Window Signs. Window signs shall not obscure more than tent percent
(10%) of the window area facing street frontage, of any building on the
parcel.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(f) Special event signs as defined in Section
[826.03](3a2f3d6a.html)(a)(54), provided the following requirements are
met:

​(1) Only one permit shall be required for all special event signs
erected within the City by a particular person or entity related to a
particular special event. The permit shall indicate the name of the
person or entity sponsoring the event; the name, address, telephone
number, and e-mail address of the person responsible for the maintenance
and removal of the signs; a list of addresses indicating the proposed
locations of the signs; and the dates beginning and ending the period of
approval.

​(2) No more than two (2) special events may be advertised with special
event signs during any calendar year. There shall be a minimum thirty
(30) day separation between the periods of display of signs related to
different events.

​(3) No more than five (5) special event signs may be erected within the
community under a single permit. This number may consist of the
following at a maximum:

A. One (1) on-premise special event sign having a sign area not to
exceed fifteen (15) square feet.

B. Four (4) off-premises special event signs having a sign area not to
exceed nine (9) square feet.

​(4) No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-way or public access
easement or within eight (8) feet of any such right-of-way or easement.
No sign may be located so as to materially impede vision between a
height of two and one-half (2 1/2) and eight (8) feet above the
centerline grades of intersecting streets or driveways, measured thirty
(30) feet from the intersection of such streets and driveways, or in any
other location which creates a hazard, in the opinion of the City
Engineer.

​(5) No sign shall be located on other public lands without the
permission of the public agency having ownership of such lands.

​(6) No sign may be affixed to a tree or other plant material, utility
pole, public bench, street light or other object, other than a building.

​(7) No sign shall be constructed of materials which are not substantial
enough to resist wind damage and undue weathering during the period of
display.

​(8) No sign shall exceed six (6) feet in height.

​(9) No sign shall be erected earlier than ten (10) calendar days prior
to the event nor remain more than forty-eight (48) hours after the close
of the event.

​(10) No more than one (1) special event sign may be erected on a
parcel.

(Ord. 02-2. Passed 1-3-02.)
