---
layout: default 
title: 826.09 SIGNS PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL SIGN DISTRICTS.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Only the following functional classes of signs are permitted on a
parcel, subject to the limitations stated below and elsewhere in this
chapter:

​(1) Advertising signs.

​(2) Real estate signs. The sum of the message areas of all real estate
signs shall not exceed thirty-two square feet for each street frontage.

​(3) Real estate open house signs.

​(4) New business signs.

​(5) Street numbers.

​(6) Political signs.

​(7) Vending machine signs.

​(8) Signs listed under Sections [826.06](3a854a95.html).

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(b) Advertising Signs. Advertising signs in commercial districts shall
meet the following requirements:

​(1) Allowable message area.

A. Single frontage parcels. The allowable message area is one square
foot for each linear foot of building frontal width, if the abutting
street has a speed limit of less than forty MPH. The allowable message
area is one and one-half square feet for each linear foot of building
frontal width, if the abutting street has a speed limit of forty MPH or
more.

B. Multiple frontage parcels. The allowable message area for the parcel
is the sum of the message areas calculated for each of the building
frontages. One square foot of message area is allowed for each linear
foot of building frontal width facing a street with a speed limit of
less than forty MPH. One and one-half square feet of message area is
allowed for each linear foot of building frontal width facing a street
with a speed limit of forty MPH or more.

​(c) Limitations on Wall Signs. One wall sign per occupant space shall
be permitted, except that where the occupant space fronts on more than
one street, one wall sign shall be permitted on each side of the
occupant space having such frontage.

(Ord. 02-55. Passed 11-7-02.)

Individual signs shall not exceed the following message areas:

​(1) If the frontage has a ground sign:

Setback from Curb

Maximum Message Area

0 to 100 feet

35 square feet

101 to 250 feet

50 square feet

251 to 350 feet

75 square feet

351 feet and over

100 square feet

​(2) If the frontage has no ground sign:

Setback from Curb

Maximum Message Area

0 to 100 feet

65 square feet

101 to 250 feet

80 square feet

251 to 350 feet

105 square feet

351 feet and over

130 square feet

​(d) Limitations on Ground Signs. Ground signs shall maintain a minimum
setback of eight feet. Only one ground sign is permitted on each side of
the parcel with street frontage. No ground sign shall exceed thirty
square feet in message area or six feet in height.

(Ord. 02-2. Passed 1-3-02.)

​(1) Electronic Message Signs as defined in Section
[826.03](3a2f3d6a.html)(a)(57), provided the following requirements and
restrictions are met:

A. Only one (1) electronic message sign is permitted on any lot except
for corner or through lots.

B. The message area for an electronic message sign shall not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the allowable message area for ground signs.

C. The message area shall remain consistent for a minimum of eight (8)
seconds. The interval between messages shall be accomplished within one
(1) second or less. No animation is permitted during the transition
however fading or dissolving, as defined in Section
[826.03](3a2f3d6a.html), of the message is permitted during the
transition.

D. Entire message to be shown at one time without the effect of an
animated sign, the illusion of animation or the message being continued
on another panel.

E. Light emitted from the electronic message sign shall be limited to a
single illuminated color and a single, non-illuminated background color.

F. When illuminated the electronic message sign may yield a maximum
intensity of 5,000 nits during between civil dawn and civil twilight but
in no case more than thirty (30) minutes before sunrise and no more than
thirty (30) minutes after sunset; otherwise the maximum intensity shall
be 500 nits.

G. Except for properties with legal frontage or legal access to S.R. 73
or S.R. 741, in cases where electronic signs are located on lots
directly adjacent to a residentially-zoned or residentially-used
property, the electronic sign shall be operable before civil dawn or
after civil twilight but in no case more than thirty (30) minutes before
sunrise and no more than thirty (30) minutes after sunset.

H. Electronic message signs shall be entirely enclosed in a frame that
is flush with the ground. The sign is entirely enclosed within the
frame. Permitted exterior cladding materials for the frames for such
signs are stone or brick.

I. Landscaping screening the base of such signs shall comply with the
approved landscaping plan for the sign.

J. Electronic message signs to be equipped with intensity control
technology or capability.

(Ord. 0-11-2. Passed 1-6-11.)

​(e) Window Signs. Window signs shall not obscure more than fifty
percent (50%) of the transparent window area facing street frontage, of
any building on the parcel.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(f) Special event signs as defined in Section
[826.03(](3a2f3d6a.html)a)(54), provided the following requirements are
met:

​(1) Only one permit shall be required for all special event signs
erected within the City by a particular person or entity related to a
particular special event. The permit shall indicate the name of the
person or entity sponsoring the event; the name, address, telephone
number, and e-mail address of the person responsible for the maintenance
and removal of the signs; a list of addresses indicating the proposed
locations of the signs; and the dates beginning and ending the period of
approval.

​(2) No more than two (2) special events may be advertised with special
event signs during any calendar year. There shall be a minimum thirty
(30) day separation between the periods of display of signs related to
different events.

​(3) No more than five (5) special event signs may be erected within the
community under a single permit. This number may consist of the
following at a maximum:

A. One (1) on-premise special event sign. This sign shall be a maximum
of fifteen (15) square feet per side.

B. Four (4) off-premises special event signs. These signs shall be a
maximum of nine (9) square feet per side.

​(4) No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-way or public access
easement or within eight (8) feet of any such right-of-way or easement.
No sign may be located so as to materially impede vision between a
height of two and one-half (2 1/2) and eight (8) feet above the
centerline grades of intersecting streets or driveways, measured thirty
(30) feet from the intersection of such streets and driveways, or in any
other location which creates a hazard, in the opinion of the City
Engineer.

​(5) No sign shall be located on other public lands without the
permission of the public agency having ownership of such lands.

​(6) No sign may be affixed to a tree or other plant material, utility
pole, public bench, street light, street sign, or object other than a
building or structure.

​(7) No sign shall be constructed of materials which are not substantial
enough to resist wind damage and undue weathering during the period of
display.

​(8) No sign shall exceed six (6) feet in height.

​(9) No sign shall be erected earlier than ten (10) calendar days prior
to the event nor remain more than forty-eight (48) hours after the close
of the event.

​(10) No more than one (1) special event sign may be erected on a
parcel.

(Ord. 02-2. Passed 1-3-02.)

​(g) Banners. Banners shall be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:

​(1) The size of individual banners shall not exceed one-half (1/2) of
the allowable message area for wall signs as provided in Section
[826.09](3b095011.html)(b).

​(2) The banner shall be securely mounted to a building. Banners shall
be mounted flush with the portion of the building facade to which it is
attached and shall be securely fashioned to avoid movement or the
appearance of movement caused by wind. Banners may not project in any
way from the building facade.

​(3) Banners may be installed for a maximum of thirty (30) days in any
one (1) evenly divided quarter (1/4) of a calendar year. Using this
frequency and duration of installation, one (1) banner shall be
permitted per street frontage per parcel.

​(4) Banners shall be constructed of materials that are substantial
enough to resist wind damage and undue weathering during the period of
display.

​(5) Banners shall not be illuminated.

(Ord. 07-6. Passed 2-15-07.)
