826.10 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ARCHITECTURAL SIGN DISTRICTS.
=======================================================

​(a) Only the following functional classes of signs are permitted on a
parcel, subject to the regulations stated below and elsewhere in this
chapter:

​(1) Advertising signs.

​(2) Real estate signs not exceeding nine square feet in message area
each, limited to one sign for each street frontage.

​(3) New business signs.

​(4) Domestic advertising signs.

​(5) One Business Hours sign.

​(6) Signs listed under Sections [826.06](3a854a95.html).

​(b) Advertising Signs. Advertising signs in architectural sign
districts shall relate only to the business(s) being conducted on the
parcel on which the sign is located.

​(c) Message Area. The allowable message area is twenty square feet.

​(d) Limitations on Wall Signs.

​(1) Wall signs shall not be painted directly on a building or wall.

​(2) Wall signs shall not exceed one-half the height of the surface to
which they are attached, or eight feet, whichever is greater.

​(3) Wall signs shall not extend more than four inches beyond the
surface to which they are attached.

​(e) Limitations on Ground Signs.

​(1) Only one ground sign is permitted on a parcel.

​(2) The maximum sign height is six feet.

​(3) A minimum setback of eight feet is required.

​(f) Limitations on Projecting Signs.

​(1) Projecting signs shall not exceed a sign height of twelve feet.

​(2) Projecting signs shall not overhang the City right-of-way except
over a pedestrian sidewalk, and then only to a maximum of three feet.

​(g) Window Signs. Window signs may not obstruct more than ten percent
(10%) of the aggregate transparent window area facing street frontage,
of any building on the parcel.

​(h) Illumination. Signs may not be internally illuminated.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(i) Architectural Review. No permanent sign associated with a protected
property in an architectural sign district shall be permitted unless it
has first been issued a certificate of appropriateness by the City
Architectural Review Board (ARB), pursuant to Chapter
[1229.08](47ba3598.html). In determining whether to grant approval, the
ARB shall consider the following:

​(1) Is the sign appropriate in scale to the building with which it is
associated?

​(2) Is the sign appropriate in design to the architectural style or
period of the building with which it is associated?

​(3) Are the colors selected for the sign compatible with the building
with which it is associated?

​(4) Is the sign located so as to reasonably minimize adverse aesthetic
effects on the architectural design of the building with which it is
associated?

Application for a certificate of appropriateness from the ARB shall be
made to the City Building Inspection Department simultaneously with, or
prior to, the application for the sign permit. Applications shall be on
a form prescribed by the City, accompanied by a dimensioned scale
drawing or dimensioned photograph of the sign indicating its typographic
style, graphics, colors, supporting structure and other visual detail.
Such applications shall bear no fee.

(Ord. 02-55. Passed 11-7-02.)
