---
layout: default 
title: 826.12 INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SIGNS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

In addition to all other signs permitted by this chapter, and
notwithstanding limitations as to allowable message area, interstate
highway signs shall be permitted, subject to the following regulations:

​(a) Interstate highway signs shall be permitted only on parcels which
are either entirely or partially within 550 feet from the point of
intersection of the extended centerline of the pavement of the
Northbound "off" ramp from Interstate 75 with the centerline of the
right-of-way of State Route 73.

​(b) Each Interstate highway sign shall be located and oriented so that
its message area is clearly and continuously visible from at least one
direction of travel on the interstate highway for at least five seconds
before the viewing motorist reaches the entrance to either the
Northbound or Southbound exit ramp from Interstate 75 to State Route 73,
when the motorist is traveling at the maximum speed permitted.

​(c) No more than one Interstate highway sign may be erected on a single
parcel. Interstate Highway Signs may only be located on the parcel which
the business use being advertised actually occupies.

​(d) Interstate highway signs shall not exceed sixty feet in height. A
variance permitting a greater height may be granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals only if all the following conditions are present:

​(1) The sixty foot height limitation prevents compliance with
subsection (b) hereof due to one or more visual obstructions. For the
purpose of this subsection (d), other signs shall not be regarded as
visual obstructions.

​(2) The effect of the obstructions cannot be feasiblely avoided by
locating the sign elsewhere on the same parcel for which the sign is
proposed.

​(3) The height granted by the variance is no more than ten feet greater
than necessary to satisfy the visibility requirement of subsection (b)
hereof.

​(4) The location of the sign will not interfere with the continuing
compliance of a previously existing sign to the visibility requirement
of subsection (b) hereof.

​(e) Each application for a permit for an Interstate highway sign shall
be accompanied by the certification of an Ohio-registered architect or
engineer that the proposed sign meets all applicable structural safety
standards.

​(f) The message area of an Interstate highway sign shall not exceed 120
square feet. This message area shall not be included in the calculation
of total message area.

​(g) Interstate highway signs with an overall height greater than
twenty-five feet shall be supported by a single pole or standard. All
poles or standards used to support Interstate Highway Signs shall be
painted white. Wood poles or standards shall not be permitted.

​(h) Interstate highway signs shall be set back a distance of at least
eight feet from all public rights-of-way, and shall not be permitted at
any location where vehicular sight distances are adversely affected.

​(i) Interstate highway signs shall comply with applicable state and
federal laws.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.) **SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS**
