---
layout: default 
title: "826&#46;24 VARIANCES AND FEES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) A variance from any provision of this chapter except message area
or allowable message area may be granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals
where the strict interpretation of this chapter would create an unusual
and unnecessary hardship on the property owner or occupant due to the
unique location or physical characteristics of the property, if such
variance would not adversely affect the public interest in any
substantial manner, and if the relevant physical characteristics of the
property were not caused by a current or previous owner or occupant.
Intentional acts by an owner or occupant officially approved by the City
of Springboro shall not act as a bar to the determination of a hardship.

​(b) The City Planning Commission shall have authority to approve
variances from the provisions of this chapter as part of its
comprehensive review and approval of a planned unit development, if a
comprehensive signage plan is submitted by the developer prior to final
approval of the planned unit development. In such cases, the Planning
Commission shall endeavor to maintain consistency with this chapter to
the maximum extent feasible.

​(c) Neither the Board of Zoning Appeals or Planning Commission shall
have authority to approve any sign with a message area exceeding that
permitted by this chapter, or to permit the total message area to exceed
the allowable message area permitted by this chapter.

​(d) In the event that a sign is established in violation of any
provision of this chapter, no application for a variance allowing such
sign shall be accepted, processed or reviewed by the Board of Zoning
Appeals while the illegal sign remains in place.

​(e) Following disapproval by the Board of Zoning Appeals of an
application or request for a variance, no subsequent application
requesting the same variance shall be filed by any applicant, whether or
not the same person, firm or corporation, until the expiration of twelve
months after the disapproval. (Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)

​(f) Applications for variances shall bear the current nonrefundable fee
set forth in Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Codified
Ordinances.

(Ord. 02-55. Passed 11-7-02; Ord. 03-42. Passed 8-21-03.)

​(g) Although these sign regulations are business regulations and not
zoning, the notice and hearing procedures provided by Ohio law for
zoning variances shall be utilized for sign variances under this
chapter. Defects in the administration of such notice and hearing
procedures shall not invalidate any action of the City Planning
Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals or City Manager/designee pursuant to
this chapter.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)
