---
layout: default 
title: 826.25 ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATIONS AND
APPLICANT APPEALS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The primary responsibility and authority for interpretation of this
chapter rests with the City Manager or his designee. When the City
Manager or designee finds that any section of this chapter is unclear,
or when any applicant for a sign permit or person directly and adversely
affected by the issuance of such permit files an appeal disputing the
interpretation of the City Manager or designee, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall hear relevant arguments on the question, and shall render
a decision. The following principles shall be applied when making
interpretations:

​(a) This chapter is generally written in permissive language. Signs not
specifically and expressly identified, defined and permitted by this
chapter are prohibited.

​(b) A sign will fall under at least one functional classification and
at least one structural classification under the definitions of this
chapter. Each sign must satisfy the regulations for all such
classifications.

​(c) Where two regulations are in conflict, the more specific shall
prevail. Where neither regulation is more specific, the more restrictive
shall prevail.

​(d) Ambiguity should be resolved to maximize consistency among the
provisions of the chapter, and effectuate their intent.

Requests by the City Manager or designee to the Board of Zoning Appeals
for interpretations, and appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals of
interpretations by the City Manager or designee from applicants or
persons directly and adversely affected by the issuance of a permit,
shall carry no fee.

(Ord. 96-38. Passed 7-11-96.)
