---
layout: default 
title: 840.02 DEFINITIONS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

For the purposes of this division, certain terms and words are defined
as follows:

​(a) "Sexually oriented businesses" are those businesses defined as
follows:

​(1) "Adult arcade" means an establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for
viewing by five or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."

​(2) "Adult Bookstore", "Adult Novelty Store" or "Adult Video Store"
means a commercial establishment which has as a significant or
substantial portion of its stock-in-trade or derives a significant or
substantial portion of revenues or devotes a significant or substantial
portion of its interior business or advertising to the sale, rental for
any form of consideration, of any one or more of the following:

A. Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
visual representations which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas";

B. Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.

C. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale rental or viewing of materials
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", and still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, or adult video store. Such other business purposes will
not serve to exempt such establishments from being categorized as an
adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store so long as one
of its principal business purposes is offering for sale or rental, for
some form of consideration, the specified materials which depict or
describe 'specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities. "

​(3) "Adult cabaret" means a nightclub, bar, restaurant "bottle club",
or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, which regularly features:

A. Persons who appear nude or in a state of nudity or seminudity;

B. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by 'specified sexual activities"; or

C. Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".

​(4) "Adult motel" means a motel, hotel or similar commercial
establishment which:

A. Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and which
advertises the availability of this sexually oriented type of material
by means of a sign visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of
any offpremises advertising including but not limited to, newspapers,
magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television; or

B. Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
hours; or

C. Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a time
period of less than ten hours.

​(5) "Adult motion picture theater" means a commercial establishment
where films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas" are regularly shown for any form of consideration.

​(6) "Adult theatre" means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or
similar commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration,
regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity or live
performances which are characterized by exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."

​(7) "Escort" means a person who, for any form of consideration, agrees
or offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or
who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform
a striptease for another person.

​(8) "Escort Agency" means a person or business association who
furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of
its primary business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.

​(9) "Massage parlor" means any place where, for any form of
consideration or gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of
fomentations, electric or magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or
manipulation of the human body which occurs as a part of or in
connection with "specified sexual activities", or where any person
providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her "specified anatomical areas." The definition of
sexually oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage
in any licensed hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed
physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or
technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur,
semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic team or school
athletic program.

​(10) "Nude Model Studio" means any place where a person, who regularly
appears in a state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is
provided for money or any form of consideration to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons.

​(11) "Sexual encounter establishment" means a business or commercial
establishment, that as one of its primary business purposes, offers for
any form of consideration, a place where two or more persons may
congregate, associate, or consort for the purpose of "specified sexual
activities" or the exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or
activities when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or
semi-nude. The definition of sexually oriented businesses shall not
include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state
engages in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.

​(b) "Employee" means a person who works or performs in and/or for a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not said person is
paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said
business.

​(c) "Establishment" means and includes any of the following:

​(1) The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;

​(2) The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter;

​(3) The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or

​(4) The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.

​(d) "Nudity or State of Nudity" means:

​(1) The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or

​(2) A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or
nipple of the female breast.

​(e) "Operator" means and includes the owner, permit holder, custodian,
manager, operator or person in charge of any permitted or licensed
premises.

​(f) "Permitted or Licensed Premises" means any premises that requires a
license and/or permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented
business.

​(g) "Permittee and/or Licensee" means a person in whose name a permit
and/or license to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued,
as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the application for
a permit and/or license.

​(h) "Person" means an individual, proprietorship, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity.

​(i) "Public building" means any building owned, leased or held by the
United States, the State, the County, the City, any special district,
school district, or any other agency or political subdivision of the
State or the United States, which building is used for governmental
purposes.

​(j) "Public park" or "recreation area" means public land which has been
designated for park or recreational activities including but not limited
to a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic
field, basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open
space, wilderness areas, or similar public land within the City which is
under the control, operation, or management of the City park and
recreation authorities.

​(k) "Quasi-Public Facility" means any building or improved property
which is customarily open to the public for noncommercial purposes, but
which is not under governmental ownership or control.

​(l) "Religious institution" means any church, synagogue, mosque, temple
or building which is used primarily for religious worship and related
religious activities.

​(m) "Residential District or Use" means a single family, duplex,
townhouse, multiple family, or mobile park or subdivision and campground
as defined in the Springboro Zoning Code.

​(n) "School" means any public or private educational facility including
but not limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools,
preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools,
intermediate schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools,
vocational schools, secondary schools, continuation schools, special
education schools, junior colleges, and universities. School includes
the school grounds, but does not include the facilities used primarily
for another purpose and only incidentally as a school.

​(o) "Semi-Nude" means a state of dress in which clothing covers no more
than the genitals, pubic, region, and areolae of the female breast, as
well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.

​(p) "Sexually Oriented Business" means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult
motel, adult motion picture theatre, adult theatre, massage parlor,
sexual encounter establishment, escort agency or nude model studio.

​(q) "Specified Anatomical Areas, " as used in this chapter means and
includes any of the following:

​(1) Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areolae; or

​(2) Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.

​(r) "Specified Sexual Activities," as used in this chapter, means and
includes any of the following:

​(1) The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;

​(2) Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;

​(3) Masturbation, actual or simulated; or

​(4) Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;

​(5) Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subdivisions (r)(1) through (4) hereof.

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
