---
layout: default 
title: "840&#46;08 PERMIT REQUIRED&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No sexually oriented business shall operate without a valid
sexually oriented business permit issued by the City for the particular
type of business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits a
misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business without said permit.

​(b) The Director of Department of Police or his/her designee is
responsible for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and
canceling sexually oriented business permits for proposed or existing
sexually oriented businesses.

​(c) The Department of Police is responsible for obtaining information
on whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act
during the time period set forth.

​(d) The City's Director of Department of Buildings/Zoning Inspector is
responsible for conducting its usual and customary inspection of a
proposed, permitted or nonpermitted sexually oriented business in order
to ascertain whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and
ordinances.

​(e) Application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
City. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall
file with the City an original and two copies of a sworn permit
application on the standard application form of the City.

​(f) The completed application shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information and shall be accompanied by the documents
indicated:

​(1) If the applicant is:

A. An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and any
aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he/she is eighteen years of
age;

B. A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and the
names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;

C. A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of Ohio, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered
corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service of
process.

​(2) If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he must state:

A. The sexually oriented business's fictitious name; and

B. Submit the required registration documents.

​(3) Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to Section [840.11](3cc728cc.html) immediately preceding the
date of the application, been convicted of a specified criminal act,
and, if so, the specified criminal act involved, the date of conviction
and the place of conviction.

​(4) Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to Section [840.08](3cc728cc.html) has been a partner in a
partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a
corporation that is permitted under this chapter whose permit has
previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension
or revocation.

​(5) Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
Section [840.08](3cc728cc.html) holds any other permits and/or licenses
under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business ordinance
from another city, county or state and, if so, the names and locations
of such other permitted businesses.

​(6) The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.

​(7) The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone
number(s), if any.

​(8) The applicant's mailing addresses and residential address.

​(9) A recent photograph of the applicant(s).

​(10) The applicant's driver's permit number, Social Security number,
and or his/her State or federally issued tax identification number.

​(11) A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The
sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be
drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.

​(12) A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
thirty days prior to application by an Ohio registered land surveyor
depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
established existing uses regulated by this chapter within 500 feet of
the property to be certified; the property lines of any established
religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or recreation
area within 500 feet of the property to be certified; and the property
lines of any residentially zoned area or residential property within 500
feet of the property to be certified. For purposes of this section, a
use shall be considered existing or established if it is in existence at
the time an application is submitted.

​(13) If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he/she must sign the application for a permit as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented
business is other than an individual, each individual who has a ten
percent (10%) or greater interest in the business must sign the
application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation is listed as
owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity which wishes to
operate such a business, each individual having a ten percent (10%) or
greater interest in the corporation must sign the application for a
permit as applicant.

​(g) Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this
section in the event that said information changes in any way from what
is stated on the application. The failure to comply with said continuing
duty within thirty days from the date of such change, by supplementing
the application on file with the Director of Department of Police or
his/her designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.

​(h) In the event that the Director of Department of Police or his/her
designee determines or learns at any time that the applicant has
improperly completed the application for a proposed sexually oriented
business, he/she shall promptly notify the applicant of such fact and
allow the applicant ten days to properly complete the application. (The
time period for granting or denying a permit shall be stayed during the
period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly
complete the application.)

​(i) The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance
with health, fire and building codes and laws.

​(j) The applicant shall be required to pay a nonrefundable application
fee of three hundred dollars (\$300.00) at the time of filing an
application under this section.

​(k) The fact that a person possesses other types of State or City
permits and/or licenses does not exempt him from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business permit or qualify him for a
sexually oriented business permit.

​(l) By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the
exercise by the Director of Department of Police or his/her designee,
the Springboro Police Department and all other City agencies charged
with enforcing the laws, ordinances and codes applicable in the City of
their respective responsibilities under this chapter.

​(m) The applicant shall be required to provide the City with the names
of any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to
Section [840.18](3d591e83.html) before they commence working. This shall
be a continuing requirement, even after a permit is granted or renewed,
so long as the sexually-oriented business is in operation. Failure to
comply with this requirement shall be a first degree misdemeanor.

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
