---
layout: default 
title: 840.10 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) The Director of Department of Police or his/her designee, shall
grant or deny the application for a permit within thirty days from the
date of its proper filing. Upon the expiration of the thirtieth day,
unless the applicant requests and is granted a reasonable extension of
time, the applicant shall be permitted to begin operating the business
for which the permit is sought, unless and until the City or its
designee, notifies the applicant of a denial of the application and
states the reason(s) for that denial. Proprietors who commence
operations after the thirty day period while approval or denial is
pending do so at their own risk as to the costs involved, but shall not
be subject to prosecution for failure to obtain a permit, unless the
application is denied and the operation is continued thereafter.

​(b) Grant of Application for Permit.

​(1) The Director of Department of Police or his/her designee, shall
grant the application unless one or more of the criteria set forth in
subsection (c) hereof is present.

​(2) The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the
address of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also
indicate that the sexually oriented business whether permitted or not
may be subject to prohibitions against public nudity and indecency
pursuant to the United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen
Theatre. Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991). The permit shall be posted in a
conspicuous interior location at or near the entrance to the sexually
oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.

​(c) Denial of Application for Permit.

​(1) The Director of Department of Police or his/her designee, shall
deny the application for any of the following reasons:

A. An applicant is under eighteen years of age.

B. An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue on his/her payment
to the City of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him/her
or imposed upon him/her in relation to a sexually oriented business.

C. An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a permit
by the City to operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding
twelve months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding twelve
months.

D. An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has
falsely answered a question or request for information on the
application form.

E. The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building
codes by the department or agency responsible under law for
investigating said compliance.

F. The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not been
paid.

G. An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is not
in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter.

H. The granting of the application would violate a statute, ordinance,
or court order.

I. The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked.

J. An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal" act for
which:

​1. Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the "specified criminal" acts
which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including but not
limited to distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors,
prostitution, pandering, or tax violations;

​2. Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if
the conviction is of a felony offense; for the "specified criminal" acts
which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including but not
limited to distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors,
prostitution, pandering, or tax violations;

​3. Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if
the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for "specified
criminal" acts which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse,
rape or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business
including but not limited to distribution of obscenity or materials
harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax violations; offenses
occurring within any twenty-four month period;

​4. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
disqualification of the applicant;

​5. An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
"specified criminal acts" may qualify for a sexually oriented business
permit only when the time period required above in subsection (c)(1)J.
has elapsed.

K. An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who does
not have a valid license as required in Section [840.19](3d74fb10.html).

​(2) If the Director of Department of Police or his/her designee, denies
the application, he/she shall notify the applicant of the denial and
state the reasons(s) for the denial.

​(3) If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of twelve months from the date of denial of a previous
application for a permit at the location, and there has not been an
intervening change in the circumstances which could reasonably be
expected to lead to a different decision regarding the former reasons
for denial, the application shall be denied.

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
