---
layout: default 
title: "840&#46;14 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The Director of Department of Police or his/her designee, shall
suspend a permit for a period not to exceed thirty days if he/she
determines that a permittee, or an employee of a permittee, has:

​(1) Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
or

​(2) Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages while working in
the sexually oriented business premises; or

​(3) Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or

​(4) Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or

​(5) Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state or local, said determination being based on investigation
by the division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules
or laws. In the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation
violation, the City or its designee, shall promptly notify the permittee
of the violation and shall allow the permittee a seven day period in
which to correct the violation. If the permittee fails to correct the
violation before the expiration of the seven day period, the City or its
designee, shall forthwith suspend the permit and shall notify the
permittee of the suspension.

​(6) Engaged in permit transfer contrary to Section
[840.17](3d4b8c22.html), the Director of Department of Police or his/her
designee shall forthwith notify the permittee of the suspension. The
suspension shall remain in effect until the applicable section of this
chapter has been satisfied.

​(7) Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
of operation Section [840.22](3d9694bb.html).

​(8) Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in Section [840.18.](3d591e83.html)

​(b) The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected.

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
