---
layout: default 
title: "840&#46;15 REVOCATION OF PERMIT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The Director of Department of Police or his/her designee shall
revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in Section
[840.14](3d281fb5.html) occurs and the permit has been suspended within
the preceding twelve months.

​(b) The Director of Department of Police or his/her designee, shall
revoke a permit upon determining that:

​(1) A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the
applicant's opportunity for obtaining a permit; or

​(2) A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises; or

​(3) A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises; or

​(4) A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was
suspended; or

​(5) A permittee has been convicted of a "specified criminal act" for
which the time period required in Section [840.10](3cfb9fda.html) has
not elapsed; or

​(6) On two or more occasions within a twelve month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a "specified criminal act" for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the sexually
oriented business at the time the offenses were committed. The fact that
a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of
the permit; or

​(7) A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business, or

​(8) A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other
specified sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.

​(9) A permittee has failed to comply with Section
[840.08](3cc728cc.html)(m).

​(c) When the Director of Department of Police or his designee revokes a
permit, the revocation shall continue for one year. The permittee shall
not be issued a sexually oriented business permit for any other location
during the one year period after the revocation became effective.

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
