840.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
===================================================

​(a) Each individual to be employed in a sexually oriented business, as
defined in Section[840.02](3c7806a9.html) shall be required to obtain a
Sexually Oriented Business Employee License. Each applicant shall pay a
permit fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Said fee is to cover
reasonable administrative costs of the licensing application process.

​(b) Before any applicant may be issued a Sexually Oriented Business
Employee License, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by
the Director of Department of Police or his or her designee the
following information:

​(1) The applicant's name or any other names (including "stage" names)
or aliases used. by the individual;

​(2) Age, date, and place of birth;

​(3) Height, weight, hair and eye color;

​(4) Present residence address and telephone number;

​(5) Present business address and telephone number;

​(6) State driver's license or identification number;

​(7) Social Security number; and

​(8) Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least eighteen
years of age.

​(9) Attached to the application form as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's face, and
the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid
by the applicant.

​(10) A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the
filing of the application, including whether such applicant previously
operated or sought to operate, in this or any other county, city, state,
or country a sexually oriented business. The applicant shall state
whether he/she has ever had such a license, permit, or authorization to
do business denied, revoked, or suspended; or had any occupational,
professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or
suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension,
the applicant shall state the date, the name of the issuing or denying
jurisdiction, and describe in full the reasons for the denial,
revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation, or
suspension shall be attached to the application.

​(11) Whether the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
act" as defined in Section [840.10](3cfb9fda.html)(c)(1)J. This
information shall include the date, place, nature of each conviction or
plea of nolo contendere and identifying the convicting jurisdiction.

​(12) The Director of Department of Police or his or her designee shall
refer the Sexually Oriented Business Employee License Application to the
Police Department for an investigation to be made of such information as
is contained on the application. The application process shall be
completed within ten days from the date the completed application is
filed. After the investigation, the Director of Department of Police or
his or her designee shall issue a license unless the report from the
Police Department finds that one or more of the following findings is
true:

A. That the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a
license, or in any report or record required to be filed with the
sheriff's department or other department of the City;

B. That the applicant is under eighteen years of age;

C. That the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal act"
as defined in Section [840.10](3cfb9fda.html)(c)(1)J.;

D. That the Sexually Oriented Business Employee License is to be used
for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute,
rule or regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this
chapter;

E. That the applicant has had a Sexually Oriented Business Employee
License revoked by the City within two years of the date of the current
application;

​(c) Renewal of License.

​(1) A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the Director of Department of Police or his or her
designee upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by
the Director of Department of Police or his or her designee and the
Police Department that the applicant has not been convicted of any
"specified criminal act" as defined in Section
[840.10](3cfb9fda.html)(c)(1)J. or committed any act during the
existence of the previous license period which would be grounds to deny
the initial permit application.

​(2) The renewal of the license shall be subject to payment of an annual
fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
