---
layout: default 
title: "840&#46;19 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS&#46;"---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than a sexually oriented motel/hotel and regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued to said business under this
chapter, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than
150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette or other video
reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:

​(1) Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a
plan thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations,
the location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any
portion of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A
manager's station may not exceed thirty-two square feet of floor area
with no dimension greater than eight feet. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which this permit will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an
engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each
diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated street or
object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked dimensions
sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all areas of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
Director of Department of Police or his/her designee, may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.

​(2) The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.

​(3) No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the City or its
designee.

​(4) It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to insure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.

​(5) The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose, including the interior of individual viewing booths, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain film or video display equipment. If
the premises have two or more manager's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there
is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron
is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's
stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of
sight from the manager's station.

​(6) It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to
insure that the view area specified in subsection (a)(5) hereof remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or person at all times and to insure that no patron is
permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated
as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to subsection a. of this section.

​(7) No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as "glory holes," shall be allowed in the
walls or partitions which separate each viewing booth from an adjoining
viewing booth or restroom. Viewing booths may not be enclosed by doors,
curtains or "maze" walls. No signs, lights or other communicative
devices may be used to create an expectation of privacy on the part of
any patron at any location on the premises.

​(8) The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination level of not less than two (2.0)
foot candles as measured at the floor.

​(9) It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to
insure that the illumination described above is maintained at all times
that any patron is present on the premises.

​(b) Any person having a duty under subsection (a) (1) to (9) hereof
commits a misdemeanor of the first degree if he knowingly fails to
fulfill that duty.

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
