---
layout: default 
title: "840&#46;21 ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) It shall be unlawful and a person commits a first degree
misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued
for said business under this chapter, and advertises the presentation of
any activity prohibited by any applicable State statute or local
ordinance.

​(b) It shall be unlawful and a person commits a first degree
misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued
or said business under this chapter, and displays or otherwise exhibits
the materials and/or performances at such sexually oriented business in
any advertising which is visible outside the premises. This prohibition
shall not extend to lawful advertising of the name, nature or location
of such sexually oriented business.

(c). The permittee shall not allow any portion of the interior premises
to be visible from outside the premises and shall not allow any activity
conducted on the premises to be visible from any location off the
premises.

​(d) All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of
operation with a lighting system which provides an average maintained
horizontal illumination of one foot candle of light on the parking
surface and/or walkways. This required lighting level is established in
order to provide sufficient illumination of the parking areas and
walkways serving the sexually oriented business for the personal safety
of patrons and employees and to reduce the incidence of vandalism and
criminal conduct. The lighting shall be shown on the sketch or diagram
of the premise required as part of the permit application process.

(Ord. 96-20. Passed 3-7-96.)
