---
layout: default
title: "850&#46;02  DEFINITIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

As used in this Chapter:

(a)  &quot;Computerized Internet Sweepstakes Device&quot; means any computer, machine, or apparatus which, is capable of connection to the internet, regardless of whether such connection is utilized, through a wireless router telephone line, digital subscriber line, satellite, cellular telephone, cable connection or any other method, which is engaged or accessed upon the insertion of a coin, token, or similar object, or the sliding of a magnetic card or entry of a code, or similar process, or upon payment of anything of value, either directly or indirectly, and which may be operated by the public generally for use as entertainment, amusement or a contest of skill, whether or not generally for use as a contest of skill, entertainment of amusement, whether or not registering a score and which when so utilized produces, announces, reveals or discloses the eligibility, award or payment of a cash prize redeemable on or at the Computerized Sweepstakes Terminal Caf&eacute;, whether or not said prize was in fact announced, revealed or disclosed through the useage of the Computerized Sweepstakes Device. Computerized Sweepstakes Device does not include machines designated for use by the State Lottery Commission.

(b) &quot;Computerized Internet Sweepstakes Terminal Caf&eacute;&quot; means any premises upon which there are situated two (2) or more Computerized Sweepstake Devices that are available for the use or entertainment of the public within such premises, whether or not such premises has any other business purpose.

(c) &quot;Chief of Police&quot; means the Police Chief of the City of Springboro or their designee.

(d) &quot;City Manager&quot; means the City Manager of the City of Springboro or their designee.

(e) &quot;Operator&quot; means the person or persons having authority to control the premises of a Computerized Sweepstakes Terminal Caf&eacute;.

(f) &quot;Licensee&quot; means the person or persons who sign an application for a license hereunder and to whom such license is issued.

(g) &quot;Owner&quot; means any person who possesses any interest, either directly or indirectly, in a Computerized Sweepstakes Terminal Caf&eacute;.

(h) &quot;Applicant&quot; means the person or persons who sign an application for a license hereunder.

(i) &quot;Person&quot; means any natural person, firm partnership, association, corporation or any other form of business organization.

(j) &quot;Premises&quot; means the building or any portion thereof used for conducting the operation of a Computerized Sweepstakes Terminal Caf&eacute;.

(k) &quot;Building and Zoning Inspector&quot; means the Building and Zoning Inspector of the City of Springboro, as established in Section [1262.01](4d24dd4b.html) of the Planning and Zoning Code, or their designee.

(Ord. 11-9. Passed 4-7-11.)