880.02 DEFINITIONS.
===================

As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning:

​(a) "Administrator" means the person designated by the City Manager, to
administer and enforce this chapter.

(Ord. 00-22. Passed 4-6-00.)

​(b) "Association" means a partnership, limited partnership or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.

​(c) "Board of Review" means the Board created by and constituted as
provided in Section [880.13](3ff78c80.html).

​(d) "Business" means an enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking
of any nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit,
whether by an individual, partnership, association, corporation or any
other entity, including, but not limited to, the renting or leasing of
property, real, personal or mixed.

​(e) "Corporation" means a corporation or joint stock association
organized under the laws of the United States, the State, or any other
state, territory or foreign country or dependency.

​(f) "Employee" means a person who works for a wage, salary, commission
or other type of compensation in the service of an employer.

​(g) "Employer" means an individual, partnership, association,
corporation, governmental body, unit or agency, or any other entity,
whether or not organized for profit, who or that employs one or more
persons on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation basis.

​(h) "Fiscal year" means an accounting period of twelve months or less
ending on any day other than December 31.

​(i) "Gross receipts" means the total income from any source.

​(j) "Net profits" means a net gain from the operation of a business,
profession, enterprise or other activity, after provision for all
ordinary, reasonable and necessary expenses either paid or accrued in
accordance with the accounting system used by the taxpayer for Federal
income tax purposes, without deduction of taxes imposed by this chapter,
Federal, State and other taxes based on income exclusive of the amount
of the State franchise tax computed on the net worth basis, and, in the
case of an association, without deduction of salaries paid to partners
and other owners, and otherwise adjusted to the requirements of this
chapter.

​(k) "Nonresident" means a person domiciled outside the Municipality.

​(l) "Nonresident unincorporated business entity" means an
unincorporated business entity not having an office or place of business
within the Municipality.

​(m) "Person" means a natural person, partnership, fiduciary,
association or corporation. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, "person", as applied to any unincorporated entity,
means the partners or members thereof and, as applied to a corporation,
the officers thereof.

​(n) "Place of business" means any bona fide office (other than a mere
statutory office), factory, warehouse or other space which is occupied
and used by the taxpayer in carrying on any business activity
individually or through one or more of his or her regular employees
regularly in attendance.

​(o) "Resident" means an individual domiciled in the Municipality.

​(p) "Resident unincorporated business entity" means an unincorporated
business entity having an office or place of business within the
Municipality.

(Ord. 731. Passed 6-1-78.)

​(q) "Taxable income" means wages, salaries and other compensation paid
by an employer before any deductions and/or the net profits from the
operation of a business, profession or other enterprise or activity
adjusted in accordance with this chapter or any other income described
elsewhere in this chapter.

​(r) "Taxable year" means the calendar year or the fiscal year upon the
basis of which net profits are to be computed under this chapter and, in
the case of a return for a fractional part of a year, the period for
which such return is required to be made.

​(s) "Taxpayer" means a person required by this chapter to file a return
or pay tax. (Ord. 04-23. Passed 6-17-04.)
