---
layout: default 
title: 880.04 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The tax imposed by this chapter for the purposes specified in
Section [880.01](3f3c0442.html) shall be levied, collected and paid with
respect to the salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation of
employees, and with respect to the net profits of business, professions
or other activities, earned on and after July 1, 1978, and the tax
imposed by this chapter for the sole purpose of providing funds for
capital improvements shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to
the salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation of employees and
with respect to the net profits of business, professions or other
activities, earned on and after July 1, 1988.

(Ord. 88-5. Approved by voters 5-3-88.)

​(b) The tax imposed by this chapter for the sole purpose of providing
funds for capital improvements shall expire and shall not be levied,
collected or paid with respect to the salaries, wages, commissions or
other compensation of employees and the net profits of businesses,
professions or other activities, earned after December 31 of the year in
which bonds issued during calendar year 1988 for the purpose of making
improvements to the municipal wastewater treatment system or any
subsequent refinancing of such obligations, whether in the form of new
bonds or otherwise, are no longer outstanding.

(Ord. 97-18. Passed 3-6-97.)

​(c) The tax imposed by this chapter for the purposes specified in
Section 880.01 shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to all
income derived or received from lotteries, gaming, wagering or other
schemes of chance by residents of the Municipality, earned in the 2004
taxable year and all taxable years thereafter. (Ord. 04-23. Passed
6-17-04.)
