---
layout: default 
title: "880&#46;05 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Each resident, except as herein provided, shall, whether or not a
tax is due thereon, make and file a return on or before April 15 for the
2004 taxable year and all taxable years thereafter. When the return is
made for a fiscal year or other period different from the calendar year,
the return shall be filed on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth
month from the end of such fiscal year or period. The Administrator is
hereby authorized to provide, by regulation, that the return of an
employer or employers, showing the amount of tax deducted by such
employer or employers from the salaries, wages, commissions or other
compensation of an employee, and paid by him or her or them to the
Administrator, shall be accepted, unless otherwise specified, as the
return required of any employee whose sole income, subject to tax under
this chapter, is such salary, wages, commissions or other compensation.
(Ord. 05-3. Passed 1-6-05.)

​(b) The return shall be filed with the Administrator on a form or forms
furnished by, or obtainable upon request from, such Administrator
setting forth:

​(1) The aggregate amounts of salaries, wages, commissions and other
compensation earned, including all income derived or received from
lotteries, gaming, wagering or other schemes of chance by residents of
the Municipality, provided the total income received from such
lotteries, gaming, wagering or other schemes of chance is equal to or
greater than five thousand dollars (\$5,000), any deduction taken for
ordinary and necessary expenses of an employee and a copy of Federal
Form 2106 and Schedule A of the federal tax return from which such
deduction is derived, and gross income from the business, profession or
other activity, less the allowable ordinary, reasonable and necessary
expenses incurred in the acquisition of such gross income earned during
the preceding year and subject to such tax;

​(2) The amount of the tax imposed by this chapter on such earnings and
profits; and

​(3) Such other pertinent statements, information returns or other
information as the Administrator may require. (Ord. 04-23. Passed
6-17-04.)

​(c) The Administrator may extend the time for filing the annual return
upon receipt of a copy of the Federal Extension request by the due date
contained in Section [880.05](3f8afd77.html)(a), before an extension
request will be granted. There will be no extension granted for payment
of tax due.

​(d) (1) The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of the filing
thereof, pay to the Administrator the amount of taxes shown as due
thereon, provided, however, that where any portion of the tax so due has
been deducted at the source pursuant to Section [880.15](3f9c6b60.html)
shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance,
if any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing the return.

​(2) A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the
Municipality is entitled under this chapter may have such overpayment
applied against any subsequent liability under this chapter or, at his
or her election indicated on the return, such overpayment (or part
thereof) shall be refunded, provided that no additional taxes or refunds
of less than ten dollars (\$10.00) shall be collected or refunded.

(Ord. 05-3. Passed 1-6-05.)

​(e) (1) Where necessary, a taxpayer must file an amended return in
order to report additional income and pay any additional tax due, or
claim a refund of tax overpaid, subject to the requirements and/or
limitations contained in Sections [880.15](3fdcb639.html). Such amended
returns shall be on a form obtainable on request from the Administrator.
A taxpayer may not change the method of accounting or apportionment of
net profits after the due date for filing the original return.

​(2) Within three months from the final determination of any Federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer's tax liability to the Municipality,
such taxpayer shall make and file an amended return showing income
subject to the income tax of the Municipality, based upon such final
determination of the Federal tax liability, and pay any additional tax
shown due thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment.

(Ord. 731. Passed 6-1-78.)
