---
layout: default 
title: 880.06 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) In accordance with Ohio Revised Code Section 718.03 and the rules
and regulations prescribed by the Administrator, each employer within or
doing business within the Municipality shall deduct, at the time of the
payment of salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation, the tax
of one and one half percent (1-1/2%) of the gross salaries, wages,
commissions or other compensation due by the employer, or the tips or
gratuities reported to the employer by each employee for Social Security
or Federal income tax purposes, and shall, on or before the last day of
the month following the close of each preceding month, make a return and
pay to the Administrator the amount of taxes so deducted. The returns
shall be on a form or forms prescribed by or acceptable to the
Administrator and shall be subject to the rules and regulations
prescribed therefor by the Administrator. The Administrator may adopt
rules and regulations allowing such tax return forms to be filed by
electronic means. Effective January 1, 2005, every employer required to
withhold the tax on compensation paid shall make payments of withheld
tax electronically using one of the electronic funds transfer (EFT)
methods prescribed by the Administrator, unless exemption from this
requirement is given by the Administrator for cases in which such
requirement would constitute a substantial hardship on the employer.
Returns may be filed by an employer on a quarterly basis when the amount
of a monthly return would normally be less than one hundred dollars
(\$100.00). Such employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax
required to be deducted and withheld, whether or not such taxes have in
fact been withheld.

(Ord. 05-3. Passed 1-6-05.)

​(b) Such employer, in collecting the tax, shall be deemed to hold the
same, until payment is made by such employer to the Municipality, as a
trustee for the benefit of the Municipality, and any such tax collected
by such employer from his or her employees shall, until the same is paid
to the Municipality, be deemed a trust fund in the hands of such
employer.

(Ord. 731. Passed 6-1-78.)

​(c) On or before February 28th of each year, each employer shall file a
withholding return setting forth the names and addresses of all
employees from whose compensation the tax was withheld during the
preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld from his or her
employees and such other information as may be required by the
Administrator. All payments not subject to withholding shall be reported
on a form required by the Administrator. (Ord. 05-3. Passed 1-6-05.)

​(d) The Administrator, for good cause, may require immediate returns
and payments to be submitted to his or her office. (Ord. 731. Passed
6-1-78.)
