880.08 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR; ENFORCEMENT.
===========================================================

​(a) The Administrator shall receive the tax imposed by this chapter in
the manner prescribed in this chapter from the taxpayers, shall keep an
accurate record thereof and shall report all moneys so received.

The Administrator shall enforce the payment of all taxes owed to the
Municipality, shall keep accurate records for a minimum of five years
showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a declaration
and/or to make any return, including taxes withheld, and shall show the
dates and amounts of payments thereof.

​(b) The Administrator is hereby charged with the enforcement of this
chapter and is hereby authorized, subject to the approval of the Board
of Review, to adopt and promulgate and to enforce the rules and
regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the collection
of taxes and the administration and enforcement of this chapter,
including provisions for the re-examination and correction of returns.

The Administrator is authorized to arrange for the payment of unpaid
taxes, interest and penalties on a schedule of installment payments,
when the taxpayer has proved to the Administrator that due to certain
hardship conditions he or she is unable to pay the full amount of the
tax due. Such authorization shall not be granted until proper returns
are filed by the taxpayer for all amounts owed by him or her under this
chapter.

Failure to make any deferred payment when due shall cause the total
unpaid amount, including penalty and interest, to become payable on
demand and the provisions of Sections [880.99](3fdcb639.html) shall
apply.

​(c) In any case where a taxpayer has failed to file a return or has
filed a return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, the
Administrator may determine the amount of tax appearing to be due to the
Municipality from the taxpayer and shall send to such taxpayer a written
statement showing the amount of tax so determined, together with
interest and penalties thereon, if any.

​(d) Subject to the consent of the Board of Review or pursuant to
regulation approved by the Board, the Administrator shall have the power
to compromise any interest or penalty, or both, imposed under
Section[880.10.](3fd24c40.html) (Ord. 731. Passed 6-1-78.)
