---
layout: default 
title: 880.09 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR;
DIVULGING CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) The Administrator, or his or her authorized agent or employee, is
hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, records and Federal
Income Tax Returns of any employer, taxpayer or person subject to, or
whom the Administrator believes is subject to, this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return
was made, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Every such
employer, supposed employer, taxpayer or supposed taxpayer is hereby
directed and required to furnish, upon written request by the
Administrator or his or her authorized agent or employee, the means,
facilities and opportunities for making such examinations and
investigations as are hereby authorized.

​(b) The Administrator is hereby authorized to order any person presumed
to have knowledge of the facts to appear before him or her and may
examine such person, under oath, concerning any income which was or
should have been reported for taxation, or any transaction tending to
affect such income, and for this purpose may compel the production of
books, papers, records and Federal Income Tax Returns and the attendance
of all persons before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses,
whenever he or she believes such persons have knowledge of such income
or information pertinent to such inquiry.

​(c) The refusal to produce books, papers, records and Federal Income
Tax Returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination by any
employer or person subject or presumed to be subject to the tax or by
any officer, agent or employee of a person subject to the tax or
required to withhold tax, or the failure of any person to comply with
any of the provisions of this section or with an order or subpoena of
the Administrator authorized hereby, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter, punishable as provided in Section [880.99.](401d1e41.html)

​(d) Any information gained as a result of a return, investigation,
verification or hearing before the Administrator, required by this
chapter or authorized by rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to
this chapter, shall be confidential and no disclosure thereof shall be
made except for official purposes or as ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

​(e) Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute his or
her tax liability for five years from the date his or her return is
filed or the withholding taxes are paid.

(Ord. 731. Passed 6-1-78.)
