880.12 VIOLATIONS
=================

.

​(a) No person shall:

​(1) Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;

​(2) Make an incomplete, false or fraudulent return;

​(3) Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or
interest imposed by this chapter;

​(4) Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from his or
her employees or remit such withholding to the Administrator;

​(5) Refuse to permit the Administrator or his or her authorized agent
or employee to examine such person's books, records, papers and Federal
Income Tax Returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;

​(6) Fail to appear before the Administrator and to produce his or her
books, records, papers or Federal Income Tax Returns relating to the
income or net profits of the taxpayer upon order or subpoena of the
Administrator;

​(7) Refuse to disclose to the Administrator any information with
respect to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;

​(8) Fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
order or subpoena of the Administrator authorized hereby;

​(9) Give to an employer false information as to his or her true name,
correct Social Security number and residence address, or fail to
promptly notify an employer of any change in residence address and the
date thereof;

​(10) Fail to use ordinary diligence in maintaining proper records of
employees' residence addresses, total wages paid and the Municipal
income tax withheld, or knowingly give the Administrator false
information; or

​(11) Attempt to do anything to avoid the payment of the whole or any
part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.

​(b) Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under this section or
any other provision of this chapter shall be commenced within three
years after the commission of the offense, provided that, in the cases
of fraud, failure to file a return or the omission of twenty-five
percent or more of income required to be reported, prosecutions may be
commenced within six years after the commission of the offense.

​(c) The failure of any employer or person to receive or procure a
return, declaration or other required form shall not excuse him or her
from making any information return, return or declaration, from filing
such form, or from paying the tax. (Ord. 731. Passed 6-1-78.)
