---
layout: default 
title: 1028.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) The City of Springboro, Ohio, is concerned with the use of the
various Rights of Way in the City as such Rights of Way are a valuable
and limited resource which must be utilized to promote the public
health, safety and welfare, including the economic development of the
City.

​(b) Changes in the utilities and communication industries have
increased the demand and need for access to public Rights of Way and
placement of facilities and structures therein.

​(c) It is necessary to comprehensively plan and manage access to, and
structures and facilities in, the public Right of Way to promote
efficiency, lessen the public inconvenience of uncoordinated work in the
Right of Way, and promote public safety.

​(d) In recognition of the limited space available in the City Right of
Way, the City shall promote the co-location of utilities to minimize
intrusions into the Right of Way.

​(e) While not a principal purpose of this chapter, an ingredient or
component of this chapter is to protect the public welfare by protecting
real estate from impairment and destruction of value by taking into
account aesthetic considerations, which may include in the opinion of
the City, the underground placement of any element of a public or
private Utility System located in the public Right of Way.

​(f) The City has rights under the laws and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, including, but not limited to, Article 18, Sections 3, 4, and 7,
to regulate public and private entities which use the public Right of
Way.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
