1028.03 DEFINITIONS.
====================

For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words,
and their derivations shall have the meanings as set forth herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense include
the future tense, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The
words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words
not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meanings.
References hereafter to "Sections" are, unless otherwise specified,
references to Sections in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined
terms whether or not capitalized.

​(a) "Certificate of Registration" means a document issued by the City
to a Utility Service Provider required before any element of its Utility
System is permitted to be located in the City public Right of Way.

​(b) "Element" means any tangible thing located in the public Right of
Way that is part of a Utility System.

​(c) "Facility" or "Facilities" means any tangible thing located in the
public Right of Way that is part of a Utility System.

​(d) "Person" means any natural or corporate person, business
association, or other business entity, including, but not limited to, a
partnership, a sole proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or
private agency of any kind, a utility, a successor or assign of any of
the foregoing, or any other legal entity.

​(e) "Provider" means a Utility Service Provider.

​(f) "Public Right(s) of Way" or "Right of Way" means the surface and
space in, on, above, within, over, below, under or through any real
property in which the City has an interest in law or equity, whether
held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a trustee for the
public, including, but not limited to, any public street, boulevard,
road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, river,
tunnel, viaduct, bridge, conduit or any other place, area, or real
property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the City
that, consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be
used for the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing
a public or private Utility System. Public Right of Way shall not
include a public building, public park, or other public property or
easement that has not been dedicated to a compatible use, except to the
extent that the use or occupation of such property is specifically
granted in a permit or approved by law.

​(g) "Revocable Street Privilege Permit" means the permit for special
licenses and privileges that must be obtained from the City Manager
pursuant to Codified Ordinance Chapter [1020](40a624fa.html), et seq.,
which is entitled "Construction, Use and Improvement of Public Ways" and
to this chapter of the Codified Ordinances.

​(h) "System" means a Utility System.

​(i) "Utility Service Provider" means a person that owns, operates, or
controls a Utility System.

​(j) "Utility System" means a functionally related group of facilities
or elements that deliver a service, such as, but not limited to, water,
sanitary sewage collection, storm water collection, gas, fuel, heat,
steam, electricity, electric powered trolley bus, electric powered light
or heavy rail transit, telephone, integrated service digital network
(ISDN), cellular telephone, personal communication services (PCS),
competitive access providers (CAPs) or competitive local exchange
carriers (CLECs) that provide telephone service, paging and signaling
systems, satellite phone service, radio, television, cable television,
digital television (DTV), video, open video services (OVS), video ready
access devises (VRAD), wireless television systems, direct broadcast
satellite (DBS) video systems, telecommunications, data transmission,
fiber optic network information transmission, private fiber optic data
transmission lines between buildings, computer interconnection, roadway
traffic signal interconnection, internet computer access, including
e-mail communications, public transportation, water transportation and
storm or sanitary sewer transportation.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
