---
layout: default 
title: "1028&#46;06 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION APPLICATIONS&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Unless exempted in this chapter, a valid Certificate of
Registration shall be required for each Utility Service Provider with
any element of a Utility System located in a public Right of Way in the
City.

​(b) The Utility Service Provider shall apply to the City Manager for a
Certificate of Registration or the renewal of a Certificate of
Registration. The City Manager shall determine the form of the
application. An application shall include the following information and
fee:

​(1) Detailed identification information about the Utility Service
Provider; a copy of the current incorporation certificate of the
applicant, if applicable; both regular and emergency contact information
for the Utility Service Provider; a brief description of each utility
service provided or proposed to be provided; a copy of each approval
required by law, by any applicable authority, to provide any utility
service described in the application; evidence of insurance coverage by
the Utility Service Provider as set forth in Section
[1028.41;](424dfadd.html) and any other relevant information the City
Manager deems necessary to determine the fitness of the Utility Service
Provider.

​(2) If requested by the City Manager or the applicant, the applicant
Utility Service Provider and the City must meet to co-ordinate future
plans for the public Right of Way between the Utility Service Provider
and the City.

​(3) An application fee as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter
[1464](58d37b9c.html), to cover the costs of processing the application,
shall be paid to the City at the time an application for a Certificate
of Registration is filed with the City. No part of an application fee is
returnable to the applicant.

​(c) Unless the applicant agrees to an extension of the maximum decision
time, the City shall have a maximum time period of thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days from the date a complete application for a
Certificate of Registration by a Utility Service Provider is received by
the City to make a decision on the application. Unless the applicant
agrees to an extension of the maximum decision time, failure of the City
to make a decision on an application for a Certificate of Registration
shall be considered the same as an approval of the application by the
City.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
