---
layout: default 
title: 1028.10 RESPONSIBILITIES OF UTILITY SERVICE PROVIDER WITH VALID CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) If the location or proposed location of any element of a public or
private Utility System is in a public Right of Way, then the consent of
the City, evidenced by the issuance by the City of a Revocable Street
Privilege Permit in accordance with Section [1028.32](420bb3e3.html) of
this chapter must be obtained by that Utility Service Provider before
the construction, installation, demolition or removal of any element of
the Utility System is permitted or any excavation by that Utility
Service Provider in the public Right of Way is permitted.

​(b) The provider must keep all the information required in the
application by the City current.

​(c) When requested by the City, a public or private Utility Service
Provider, with a Utility System element located or proposed to be
located in a public Right of Way in the City, must meet with the City to
co-ordinate future plans for the public Right of Way between the Utility
Service Provider and the City.

​(d) A Utility Service Provider with any Utility System element located
or proposed to be located in a Right of Way in the City must provide the
City with up-to-date accurate plans in sufficient detail and in a format
acceptable to the City showing the location of all elements of the
Utility System located in the Right of Way in the City. The City
Engineer may in the future adopt specifications and further define the
mapping data requirement(s) under this Section. In each instance a
Utility Service Provider shall be served with a copy of the
specifications by regular U.S. Mail provided, however, that failure to
actually receive such notice shall not in any way affect the validity or
enforceability of said specifications.

​(e) In addition to a Certificate of Registration, providers shall
obtain any and all regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations, or
licenses necessary for the offering or provision of such services from
the appropriate Federal, State and local authorities and, upon the
City's reasonable request, shall provide copies of such documents to the
City.

​(f) A Certificate of Registration issued pursuant to this chapter shall
not entitle a provider to use, alter, convert to, or interfere with, the
facilities, easements, poles, conduits, lines, pipelines, wires, fiber,
cable, or any other real or personal property of any kind whatsoever
under the management or control of the City.

​(g) A Certificate of Registration shall not convey equitable or legal
title in the Right of Way. A Certificate of Registration is only the nonexclusive, limited right to occupy Right of Way in the City for the
imited purpose and for the limited period stated in the Certificate of
Registration and in accordance with this chapter and any associated
permit. For those providers with a valid gas or electric franchise, the
provisions of a Certificate of Registration shall be deemed as
regulatory in nature and shall not be interpreted to limit the right to
occupy the Right of Way which may have been granted by such franchise.
The rights to occupy the Right of Way itself may not be subdivided or
subleased, provided, however, that two or more providers may collocate
facilities in the same area of the Right of Way so long as each such
provider complies with the provisions of this chapter. A Certificate of
Registration does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its facilities
on facilities of others, including the City's facilities. A Certificate
of Registration does not prevent a provider from leasing space in or on
the provider's system, so long as the sharing of facilities does not
cause a violation of law, including the provisions of this chapter. A
Certificate of Registration does not excuse a provider from complying
with any provisions of this chapter and other applicable law.

​(h) A Utility Service Provider with any Utility System Elements located
in a Right of Way shall maintain such Elements, including but not
limited to repainting over any graffiti.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
