---
layout: default 
title: 1028.15 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS; ABANDONED EQUIPMENT; REMOVAL.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Discontinued Operations. A provider who has determined to
discontinue its operations in the City must either:

​(1) Provide information satisfactory to the City Manager that the
provider's obligations for its equipment in the Right of Way under this
chapter have been lawfully assumed by another provider; or

​(2) Submit to the City Manager a proposal and instruments for
transferring ownership of its equipment to the City. If a provider
proceeds under this clause, the City may, at its option: purchase the
equipment; require the provider, at its own expense, to remove it; or
require the provider to post a bond in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the City for reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing the
equipment.

​(b) Abandoned Equipment. Equipment of a provider who fails to comply
with the discontinued operations provisions of this chapter and which
remains unused shall be deemed to be abandoned. Unused equipment means
facilities located in the Right of Way which have remained unused for a
period of two years and for which the provider is unable to: (i) provide
the City with a credible plan detailing the procedure by which the
provider intends to begin actively using such facilities within the next
twelve months; or (ii) that it has a potential purchaser or user of the
facilities who will be actively using the facilities within the next
twelve months; or (iii) that the availability of such facilities is
required by the provider to adequately and efficiently operate its
system. Abandoned equipment is deemed to be a nuisance. The City may
exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including,
but not limited to: (i) abating the nuisance; (ii) taking possession of
the equipment and restoring it to a useable condition; or (iii)
requiring removal of the equipment by the provider, or the provider's
successor in interest.

​(c) Removal. Any provider who has unused and abandoned equipment in any
Right of Way shall remove it from that Right of Way during the next
scheduled excavation, or at such different time as designated by the
City Manager, unless this requirement is waived by the City Manager.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
