---
layout: default 
title: 1028.31 APPLICATIONS FOR REVOCABLE STREET
PRIVILEGE PERMITS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Applications for Revocable Street Privilege Permits under this
chapter shall be submitted in a format to be determined by the City and
shall be accompanied by drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient
detail to demonstrate the following.

​(1) The facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.

​(2) The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the
burial at all points along the route which are within the public ways.
Included with the installation shall be tracer wire or another method
acceptable to the City for the purpose of locating the facility during
future construction activities.

​(3) The location of all existing underground utilities, conduits,
ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public ways
along the underground route proposed by the applicant.

​(4) The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures and facilities within or adjacent to the public
ways.

​(5) The location and dimension of all trees within or adjacent to the
public ways along the route proposed by the applicant.

​(6) The location of any facilities proposed to be above ground

​(b) All plan submissions shall be in accordance with the submission
requirements as established and maintained by the City Engineer. In
cases such as major projects involving construction or relocation of
multiple utilities or other facilities in the right-of-way, situations
where the structural integrity of surrounding facilities is at issue, or
other such construction concerns, such plans, upon request of the City
Engineer, shall be certified by a State of Ohio registered professional
engineer, or by the Public Utility as defined by section 4905.03 of the
Ohio Revised Code as the Right of Way occupant, that the drawings, plans
and specifications submitted comply with the applicable codes, rules and
regulations. The City Engineer shall specify the basis for requiring
certification of the plans.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
