---
layout: default 
title: 1028.46 RIGHTS OF APPEAL.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Authorization. The following decisions of the City pursuant to this
chapter are appealable to the City Council:

​(1) The decision of the City Manager with respect to the issuance of an
exemption to the requirement of a Certificate of Registration;

​(2) The denial of an application for a Certificate of Registration; and

​(3) Denial of a permit under Section[1028.32.](420bb3e3.html)

An appeal from the decision of the City Manager with respect to any of
these decisions may be taken to the City Council by any aggrieved
provider.

​(b) Filing Fee. The filing fee for any appeal under this chapter shall
be as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html).

​(c) Time for Appeals. Appeals to the City Council shall be filed within
thirty days from the decision of the City Manager by filing a written
notice of appeal with the Clerk of the City Council. The notice of
appeal shall specify the grounds for such appeal, and shall be on the
form prescribed by the Clerk of the City Council. Upon receipt of an
appropriately completed notice of appeal and filing fee, the Clerk of
the City Council shall transmit to the members of the City Council all
papers constituting the record upon which the decisions being appealed
were based.

​(d) Hearing on Appeal. The City Council shall schedule the hearing for
the appeal within a reasonable period of time at a regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. Written notice of the hearing shall be sent to the
aggrieved provider at least ten days prior to the hearing. The failure
of delivery of such notice, however, shall not invalidate any subsequent
proceedings. The aggrieved provider or its representative may appear and
be heard at the hearing, and present any evidence the provider desires
in support of its position.

​(e) Decision on Appeals. The City Council may affirm, reverse, or
modify, in whole or in part, the decision appealed from, and to that
end, the City Council shall have all the powers of the City Manager with
respect to such decision. The concurring vote of a majority of the
members of the City Council shall be necessary to reverse or modify any
decision of the City Manager under this chapter. The City Council shall
render a written decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay after
the close of the hearing, and in all cases within thirty days after the
close of the hearing.

​(f) Records of Appeals. The Clerk of the City Council shall maintain
complete records of all actions of the City Council with respect to
appeals.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
