1028.48 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS TO CITY.
============================================================

​(a) The City, by the granting of a permit, or by issuing a Certificate
of Registration under this chapter, does not surrender or to any extent
lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and rights which it has
or may hereafter have, which are vested in the City under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, the State of Ohio, under the
Charter of the City of Springboro, to regulate the use of the Right of
Way. The provider, by its acceptance of a permit, or by applying for and
being issued a Certificate of Registration, agrees that all lawful
powers and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as
are or the same may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the
City, shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise
thereof by the City at any time. A provider is deemed to acknowledge
that its rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and
welfare of the public and is deemed to agree to comply with all
applicable general laws enacted by the City pursuant to such powers.

​(b) All person's rights are subject to the police powers of the City to
adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the public. All persons shall comply with all applicable
laws enacted by City pursuant to its police or other powers. In
particular, all persons shall comply with City zoning and other land use
requirements pertaining to the placement and specifications of
facilities.

(Ord. 08-22. Passed 7-3-08.)
