---
layout: default 
title: 1040.01 CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS
FOR UTILITIES AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) This section shall be known and may be cited as the "Specifications
for Materials and Construction of Utilities and Street Improvements."

​(b) The purpose of this section, including the specifications herein
adopted, is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life, health,
property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
construction, quality of materials, use, location and maintenance of
utilities and street improvements in the Municipality.

​(c) Where, in any specific case, a part of the specifications herein
adopted specifies a different material, method of connection or other
requirement than another part, the most restrictive part shall govern.

​(d) This section is not intended to prevent the use of any material or
method of construction not specifically prescribed by the specifications
herein adopted, provided that any alternate material or method has been
officially approved by the Manager. The Manager or the Engineer may
approve any such alternate material or method, provided that he or she
finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and that the material,
method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the
equivalent of that prescribed in the specifications herein adopted in
quality, strength, effectiveness, durability and safety. The Manager may
require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate
any claim that may be made regarding the use of the material or method
of construction.

​(e) If any paragraph, diagram or part of this section, including the
specifications herein adopted, is declared unconstitutional, it shall
not affect the validity of the remaining paragraphs or diagrams of this
section or such specifications.

​(f) Whenever a question is raised which is not specifically covered by
this section or another specification drawn up by the Municipality, the
prevailing industry practice, as determined by the Engineer, shall
prevail.

​(g) Whenever a question of interpretation is raised regarding this
section or other specifications regarding the materials and construction
of utilities and street improvements, the question shall be submitted to
the Manager for clarification in writing. Where such questions are not
submitted in writing, the Municipality shall have the right to exercise
its judgment in all matters.

​(h) The standard drawings of the Southwest Ohio Engineering
Association, as modified by the Municipality and approved by the
Engineer, on September 20, 1980, are hereby adopted by the Municipality
and made a part of this section as if fully rewritten herein. A copy of
such standards is on file with the Clerk of Council. (Ord. 914. Passed
12-4-80.)
