---
layout: default 
title: 1042.10 TAP-IN FEES.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Tap-In Fees.

​(1) A tap-in fee as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter
[1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Building and Housing Code of the Codified
Ordinances per unit shall be charged for multi-family dwellings.

A. In the event the total tap-in fee is fully prepaid, for 100 multiple
family dwelling units or more, prior to issuance of the first building
permit the tap-in fee shall be seventy-five percent (75%) of the total
tap-in fee.

​(2) All business and industrial establishments shall be charged a
tap-in fee determined by the size of the water meter servicing the
premises as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html) of
the Building and Housing Code of the Codified Ordinances The size of the
water meter required shall be commensurate with the usage and load of
such establishment, as determined by the Municipal Engineer. Contiguous
living units shall be charged, in addition, as provided for in
subsection (a) hereof.

​(3) All business and industrial establishments, single-family
residences and any other user of the water system, except as provided
otherwise herein, shall be charged a tap-in fee determined by the size
of the water meter servicing the premises, which shall be sized as
determined by the Engineer, as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter
[1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Building and Housing Code of the Codified
Ordinances.

​(b) Water System Capacity Fees. The water system capacity fees shall be
set forth in Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Codified
Ordinances per Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU).

​(1) For lots platted prior to September 1, 1994, the party applying for
a permit to connect will be required to pay the full applicable water
system capacity fee.

​(2) For lots platted after September 1, 1994, the developer is to
prepay fifty percent (50%) of this fee prior to platting. The remaining
fifty percent (50%) shall be paid by the party applying for the permit
to connect.

​(c) Definition of Terms.

​(1) "Equivalent Residential Units (ERU)" means a user that uses 12,000
gallons or less of water per month (Ord. 03-42. Passed 8-21-03.)
