---
layout: default 
title: 1042.15 TAP-IN FEES FOR UNASSESSED PROPERTY.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Notwithstanding anything stated in Sections
[1042.14](42fa4b74.html), if the circumstances described in subsection
(b) hereof exist, then the tap-in fee for the Municipal water system
shall be determined pursuant to subsection (c) hereof.

​(b) The water system fee computed pursuant to subsection (c) hereof
shall apply to any property that meets the following conditions:

​(1) The property abuts, abounds or is served by an extension to the
waterworks system that is constructed after the date of the adoption of
this section (Ordinance 942, passed March 19, 1981) by the Municipality
and financed with funds of the Municipality.

​(2) The cost of constructing such extension to the waterworks system is
not paid for with any special assessment levied against the property.

​(3) The property has not previously been assessed for a water system
extension.

​(c) The water system tap-in fee for any property described in
subsection (b) hereof shall be the total of the following:

​(1) A basic fee as determined by the provisions of Section
[1042.10](43222e13.html) relevant to the type of tap-in proposed; plus

​(2) A sum per front foot of the property abutting and abounding the
water system extension, such sum to be determined by the Engineer and to
be an estimated front foot cost (including all expenses relative to the
water system extension listed in Ohio R.C. 727.08) to construct a
six-inch water main extension, provided that each property shall be
charged on the basis of a front footage of 100 feet or the actual
footage abutting and abounding the water system extension, whichever is
greater, and provided, further, that if the water system extension abuts
or abounds the property on more than one side, then the property shall
be charged on the basis of a front footage of 100 feet or the actual
footage on the longest side of the property that abuts or abounds the
water system improvement, whichever is greater; plus

​(3) If the property is subdivided after the construction of the water
main extension, the Engineer shall add to the cost of the tap-in fee the
actual construction cost (including all expenses relative to the project
listed in Ohio R.C. 727.08) of any oversizing of the water system beyond
that covered in paragraph (c)(2) hereof required for the overall
efficient operation of the Municipal water system, as determined by the
Engineer, plus interest on such costs at the rate of eight percent per
year, computed from the date the Municipality borrows money from such
costs or pays a contractor any portion of the cost of such oversizing
(whichever date is earlier) to the date of payment of the tap-in fee.

(Ord. 942. Passed 3-19-81; Ord. 1010. Passed 1-21-82.)
