---
layout: default 
title: "1042.16 PAYMENT OF TAP-IN FEES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The fees required by Sections [1042.15](43222e13.html) are due and
payable when a request for water service and a tap into the Municipal
water system is filed with the appropriate official of the Municipality.
The proper payment must accompany and be submitted with such a request
for service, provided, however, that payment may be made in accordance
with the provisions of this section.

If the circumstances described in Section [1042.15](4343c675.html)(b)
exist, then the fee required hereunder may be deferred and made payable
in quarterly installments, provided that the owner of the property to be
served signs an agreement with the Municipality in accordance with the
following terms:

​(a) The Director of Service shall file or cause to be filed in the
miscellaneous records or other records, if applicable, of the County
Recorder, for each property to which the conditions of Section
[1042.15](4343c675.html) are applicable if the owner of such property
requests a tap into the Municipally owned water system. Such filing
shall be made within ten days after the adoption by Council of a
resolution to accept contractors' bids for the construction of any
extension of the water system to the properties that abut, abound or are
potentially served thereby, provided, however, that failure to make such
filing shall in no way affect the duties and obligations arising from
subsections (b) through (l) hereof.

​(b) All agreements for deferred payments of the fee required hereunder
shall accompany the request for water service and shall state the number
of years over which the payments are to extend, provided that no
payments shall extend beyond twenty years from the date of filing the
request with the appropriate official of the Municipality.

​(c) The principal amount of the deferred fee (unless paid in full under
subsection (d) hereof shall be paid in substantially equal quarterly
amounts, with the conditions that the initial payment must be made prior
to the permit being issued and that the same must be at least equal to
the basic fee set out in Section [1042.15](4343c675.html)(c)(1).

​(d) The unpaid principal amount of the deferred fee may be prepaid in
full at any time at the option of the property owner, without penalty,
and upon prepayment in full, all interest charges, as provided in
subsection (e) hereof shall cease.

​(e) Interest on the outstanding principal amount of the deferred fee
shall be computed at the lower of the rate of ten and one-half percent
per year, or a rate equal to the average prime rate charged by the banks
located in the Municipality, provided that the interest shall be
determined at the time of the filing of the agreement provided for in
this section and such rate of interest shall not be altered for the life
of the agreement.

​(f) Billings for both principal and interest shall be added to the
quarterly water service billing of the Municipality.

​(g) Water service shall be terminated by the Municipality to any
property for which the quarterly charges required hereunder are not paid
within thirty days.

​(h) If the owner of any property subject to the provisions of this
section sells, conveys or otherwise transfers such property, he or she
shall, prior to such sale, conveyance or transfer, either pay the then
outstanding principal amount of the deferred charges required under this
section, plus accrued interest, or present to the appropriate Municipal
official an agreement, as provided in this section, signed by the new or
prospective owner of the property, requesting the continuation of the
deferred payments for the remainder of the original period, in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the original agreement. Such
continuation agreement of the new or prospective owner shall be
accompanied with a payment in an amount equal to the cost of filing the
agreement in the office of the County Recorder, as required by
subsection (j) hereof.

​(i) None of the terms and conditions of the agreement shall be altered
or amended during its life by either party thereto.

​(j) Each agreement (including a continuation agreement as provided in
subsection (h) hereof shall be recorded in the miscellaneous records of
the office of the County Recorder, and the cost thereof shall be added
to the first quarterly payment.

​(k) An amount equal to the first quarterly payment shall be payable and
due when an agreement is filed with the appropriate Municipal official,
provided that no such payment is required when a continuation agreement,
as provided in subsection (h) hereof, is filed.

​(l) Each agreement (including a continuation agreement as provided in
subsection (h) hereof) filed under the provisions hereof shall be
approved by the Director of Service and no such agreement shall be valid
until duly executed by the Director.
