---
layout: default 
title: "1042.18 PAYMENT OF BILLS; PENALTY SURCHARGES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; APPLICATION OF RATES."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Charges for service shall be payable monthly or quarterly,
depending on the classification of service for which bills are rendered.
Amounts of less than ten dollars (\$10.00) shall not be refunded on any
utility bill overpayment. (Ord. 10-27. Passed 6-17-10.)

​(b) All water bills are due and payable upon receipt. A penalty of ten
percent of the bill shall be added to any bill not paid by the twentieth
day of the month. An additional one and one-half percent shall be added
to the total for each additional thirty days the bill remains unpaid.

(Ord. 03-42. Passed 8-21-03.)

​(c) If the charges are not paid within thirty days after the rendering
of such bill, then such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared
to be delinquent. If such charges are not paid within forty-five days
after the rendering of such bill, the Municipality is authorized to
discontinue service after ten days notice. A water shut off fee as set
forth in Appendix A of Chapter [1042.18](58d37b9c.html) are collectible
by the City or its authorized agent along with reasonable administrative
costs thereon by other means. Reasonable administrative costs associated
with the collection of delinquent utility bills include but are not
limited to, fees in an amount up to an additional fifty percent (50%) of
the total delinquent amount, including the tax amount, interest and
penalties of any post judgment account assigned to a collection agency.
(Ord. 10-27. Passed 6-17-10.)

​(d) Charges accruing under the provisions of Sections
[1042.18](43611447.html) shall constitute a lien upon the property
served and, if not paid within ninety days, shall be certified to the
County Auditor for collection in the same manner as real estate taxes.

​(e) The water rates specified in Section [1042.17](43611447.html)(b)
shall apply to every dwelling unit, business and other consumer in the
Municipality and to other areas serviced by the Municipality.

(Ord. 03-42. Passed 8-21-03.)
