---
layout: default 
title: "1042&#46;29 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) If, in the judgment of the Service Director, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Director shall give notice to the water consumer to install
such an approved device. The water consumer, at his own expense, shall
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved
by the Director and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices as required by the Director.

​(b) No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection
whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the
regular public water supply of the City may enter the supply or
distributing system of the City, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such
supply shall have been approved by the Director and by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency.

​(c) It shall be the duty of the Service Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by
the public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public
water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated as often as the Director
shall deem necessary.

​(d) The Service Director or his duly authorized representative shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distributing system of the City
for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems thereof. On
demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall
furnish to the Director any information which he may request regarding
the piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal
of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the
Director be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this section.

​(e) The Service Director is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water
service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions
shall have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this section.

(Ord. 88-41. Passed 7-7-88.)
