---
layout: default 
title: 1044.02 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES; USE OF
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall place or deposit, or permit to be placed or
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property in the
Municipality or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Municipality,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.

​(b) No person shall discharge to any natural outlet in the Municipality
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Municipality, any sewage or
other polluted water, except where suitable treatment has been provided
in accordance with this chapter and within the constraints established
by the N.P.D.E.S. permit issued for such discharge.

​(c) Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.

​(d) The owner of a house, building or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated in the
Municipality and abutting on any street, alley or right of way, in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary
sewer, is hereby required, at his or her expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with
the proper public sewer in accordance with this chapter, within ninety
days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that such
public sewer is within 100 feet (30.5 m.) of such house, building or
property. (Ord. 923. Passed 12-18-80.)
