1044.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
========================================

​(a) No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with, or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereto without first obtaining a written permit therefor from the
Municipality.

​(b) All disposal by any person into the sewerage system is unlawful
except those discharges which are in compliance with Federal standards
promulgated pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as
amended, and more stringent State and local standards.

​(c) There are two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her
agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
Municipality. The permit application shall be supplemented by plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee, in accordance with
Section [1044.09](44c7a78e.html), shall be paid to the Municipality at
the time the application is filed.

​(d) An industrial user, as a condition of permit authorization, shall
provide information describing its wastewater constituents and
characteristics and type of activity.

​(e) A building sewer permit shall only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream
sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have a sufficient reserve capacity to adequately
and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.

​(f) All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the Municipality for any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer.

​(g) A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building. However, where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard
or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended
to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.

​(h) Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to
comply with this chapter.

​(i) The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall conform to the
Building and Housing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of
the Municipality. In the absence of such Code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Material
(A.S.T.M.) and Water Pollution Control Federation (W.P.C.F.) Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply.

​(j) Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. All sewer taps issued
shall be for gravity sewers only, unless specifically approved otherwise
by the Engineer. It shall be deemed a violation of this chapter whenever
a nongravity sewer is installed without such specific approval. Such
approval shall be given only in extreme cases where the necessary site
alterations or other alternatives required to permit gravity sewers are
deemed to be wholly inappropriate in the specific situation.

​(k) The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the Building and Housing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the Municipality, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Inspector before installation.

​(l) The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision
of the Inspector or his or her representative.

​(m) All excavation for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazards. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the Municipality. (Ord. 923. Passed 12-18-80.)
