---
layout: default 
title: 1044.06 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water to
any sanitary sewer.

​(b) Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Inspector. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the Inspector
and upon the issuance of an N.P.D.E.S. permit, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.

​(c) No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes into any public sewer:

​(1) Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive material or volatile liquid;

​(2) Any water or waste containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create a public nuisance or
a hazard in receiving waters of the sewage treatment plan, including,
but not limited to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as a cyanide ion in
the wastes as discharged to the public sewer;

​(3) Any water or waste having a pH lower than 6.0 or greater than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works; or

​(4) Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewage works, including, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch
manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk
containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders, and any
material which, by reason of mixture or interaction, tends to cause
obstruction or otherwise interferes with the operation of the sewage
works.

​(5) No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any water or
waste in violation of the NPDES permit discharge limits.

​(d) No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely
that the same can harm either the sewers or the sewage treatment process
or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or
otherwise endanger life, limb or public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of such wastes,
consideration will be given to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, the materials
of construction of the sewers, the nature of the treatment process
capacity of the sewage treatment plant, the degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
Prohibited substances include the following:

​(1) Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (sixty-five degrees Centigrade);

​(2) Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two and
150 degrees Fahrenheit (zero and sixty-five degrees Centigrade);

​(3) Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Municipality.

​(4) Any water or waste containing acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not, without
prior approval of the Municipality;

​(5) Any water or waste containing arsenic, cadmium, chromium, chromium
hexavalent, chromium trivalent, copper, iron, lead, mercury, nickel,
phenol, phathalate esters, silver, zinc or any other pollutant
prohibited by Section 307(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
as amended, or a similar objectionable or toxic substance, or wastes
exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such a degree that any
such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment
works exceeds the limits established by the Municipality for such
materials;

​(6) Any water or waste containing phenols or other toxic or
odor-producing substances, in such concentrations as exceed limits which
may be established by the Municipality as necessary, after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or
other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters;

​(7) Any radioactive waste or isotope of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed established limits in compliance with applicable State or
Federal regulations;

​(8) Materials which exert or cause:

A. Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and
sodium sulfate);

B. Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions);

C. Unusual BOD, COD or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to
constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works; or

D. An unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs; " or

​(9) Any water or waste containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or
are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.

​(e) If any water or waste is discharged, or is proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which water or waste contains the
substances or possesses the characteristics enumerated in subsection (d)
hereof, and which may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise creates a
hazard to life or constitutes a public nuisance, the Municipality may:

​(1) Reject the wastes;

​(2) Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;

​(3) Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or

​(4) Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
subsection (j) hereof.

If the Municipality permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, then the design and installation of the plants and equipment
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Municipality and to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.

​(f) Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients. However, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of
a type and capacity approved by the Municipality and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.

​(g) Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided for any water or waste, they shall be maintained continuously
in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense.

​(h) When required by the Municipality, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer as are needed to facilitate the
observation, sampling and measurement of wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Municipality. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall
be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.

​(i) All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American
Public Health Association, or otherwise, by Environmental Protection
Agency approved methods and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided or upon suitable samples taken at such manhole. If no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which
the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by
customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon
the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb
and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a
twenty-four hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate
or whether a grab sample should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analyses are obtained from twenty-four hour
composites of all outfalls where pH is determined from periodic grab
samples.

​(j) Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the Municipality and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the Municipality for treatment, subject to
the payment of a surcharge based on the strength and character of the
waste, provided such payment is in accordance with Federal and State
guidelines for user charge systems and industrial cost recovery systems.

​(k) The Municipality shall have the right to reject any industrial
waste which may not be compatible with the treatment process or the
sewage works. The Municipality further has the right to require
pretreatment of industrial wastes, if deemed necessary, and to impose a
surcharge commensurate with any added difficulty or added direct cost
associated with an industrial waste.

​(l) A system of industrial cost recovery, in accordance with Section
[1044.13](44f76a4d.html), shall be instituted by the Municipality prior
to the acceptance of any industrial waste.

​(m) As a safeguard to public health, the following notification
procedures shall apply in the event of an accidental spill. Any
industrial user shall notify the City Manager immediately upon the
occurrence of a "slug", load or accidental discharge of a substance
prohibited by this section or applicable State or Federal law. The
initial notification shall include at a minimum the following
information: location of the discharge, date and time of the discharge,
material discharged, concentration, volume discharged and any corrective
action already taken.

These reports shall be confirmed in writing within five days of the
discharge and submitted on the City Accident Spill Form to the City
Manager. Failure to report shall be grounds for revocation of an
industrial waste permit and termination of sewer service.

Any industrial user who discharges a slug load of prohibited materials
shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to the municipal sewer
system, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed on the Authority
or account thereof under State or Federal law.

Signs shall be posted by the industrial user in conspicuous places on
the industrial user's premises, advising employees when to call in the
event of a slug or accidental discharge to the municipal sewer system.
Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause or discover such
discharge with respect to emergency notification procedures and
countermeasure actions.

​(n) Discharge reporting requirements are hereby established for extra
strength industrial users in the Municipality. All extra strength
industrial users are hereby required to submit an industrial permits
report in compliance with applicable Federal and State discharge
reporting requirements to the Municipality. (Ord. 93-71. Passed
11-4-93.)
