---
layout: default 
title: "1044.07 APPLICATION FOR SEWER SERVICE THROUGH EXISTING LINES REQUIRED; DEPOSIT."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Before sewer service through existing lines may be obtained for any
residential unit within the Municipality, the owner, tenant or occupant
of the premises shall make application for such service to the Director
of Service or his or her designee.

​(b) Each owner, tenant or occupant shall deposit a water and sewer
service deposit fee as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter
[1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Building and Housing Code of the Codified
Ordinances for each residential unit for which sewer service is to be
supplied. Such deposit shall be for the purpose of ensuring the payment
for sewer service rendered. The depositor shall receive no interest on
his or her deposit. The moneys so deposited shall be placed in a
separate fund to be used for no purpose other than to offset any unpaid
amounts for sewer service rendered. Such deposit shall not relieve the
depositor of the responsibility for payment of sewer service in excess
of the deposit.

​(c) Each tenant or occupant who has made the deposit, as set forth in
this section, shall be entitled to the refund of his or her deposit upon
termination of sewer service. A refund shall be made only upon written
application therefor.

​(d) Each owner of the premises to which sewer service is required who
has made the deposit, as set forth in this section, shall be entitled to
the refund of his or her deposit at such time as he or she has made
timely payment of all charges for sewer service for two years, or upon
termination of sewer service. A refund shall be made only upon written
application therefor.

(Ord. 03-42. Passed 8-21-03.)
