1044.11 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES; MEASUREMENT OF FLOW; SURCHARGES.
====================================================================

​(a) Basis for Wastewater Service Charges. The wastewater service charge
for the use of, and for services supplied by, the Municipal wastewater
collection and treatment system, shall consist of a charge for
collection and a charge for treatment. Such charges shall be established
to defray the cost of administration, operation, maintenance, major
replacement and debt service.

​(b) Collection System Charges. The collection system charge shall
consist of a minimum charge plus a use charge based on flow.

​(c) Treatment System Charges. The treatment system charge for normal
domestic sewage and for discharges that are less than 600 mg/l COD and
less than 225 mg/l suspended solids and that contain no incompatible
pollutants shall consist of a flow charge.

The treatment system charge for wastewater that is greater than 600 mg/l
COD or greater than 225 mg/l suspended solids or that has a rate of
discharge greater than 25,000 gallons per day shall consist of a flow
charge, a surcharge and/or an industrial cost recovery charge, as
applicable.

The surcharge shall consist of a cost per pound in excess of the limits
stated in this subsection as determined by the amount of increased cost
to the system to treat these flows. Other waste characteristics shall be
surcharged if they increase the cost of wastewater treatment in excess
of that for the treatment of normal sewage. Such surcharges shall be
determined by the Engineer in accordance with applicable Federal
standards.

​(d) Review of Wastewater Service Charges. The adequacy of the charge
system shall be reviewed at least annually and revised as necessary in
order to collect sufficient revenues to administer, operate and maintain
the system, to retire the debt and to build a replacement fund as
defined by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended.

​(e) Measurement of Flow.

​(1) The volume of flow used for computing user charges and surcharges
shall, to the extent practical, be the metered water consumption.

​(2) If the user discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his, her or its water from sources other than the public
water works system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public
sewers, he, she or it shall install and maintain, at his, her or its own
expense, water meters of a type approved by the Municipality for the
purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from such other
sources.

​(3) Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the Municipality if such volume cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.

​(4) Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the Municipality or by a party
designated by the Municipality.

​(f) Computation of Surcharges. The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste
sampling shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the
Municipality or its representative and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.

​(g) Computation of Wastewater Service Charges. The wastewater service
charge shall be computed by the following formula:

Wastewater Service Charge =

M + Q (UC) + SUR + ICR

where: M = System minimum charge per billing period

Q = Billing period flow

UC = User charge for operation, maintenance and replacement

SUR= Surcharge

ICR = Industrial cost recovery charge

(Ord. 88-10. Passed 2-4-88.)

​(h) Establishment of Charges. The charges referenced in this subsection
are established as the charges for the Municipal collection and
treatment system. Wastewater service charges for the period beginning
with the May 1, 1988 meter reading as reflected on the monthly billing
issued in June, 1988, shall be as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter
[1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Building and Housing Code of the Codified
Ordinances.

Due to the increase of the City income tax, wastewater charges to the
resident and nonresident users shall be those charges as set forth in
such Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html).

Users outside the City shall be charged an additional surcharge as set
forth in such Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html) in addition to
the rates established herein.

(Ord. 93-46. Passed 7-1-93.)

​(i) Operation, Maintenance and Recovery Costs. Each user shall pay
their proportionate share of operation, maintenance and recovery costs.
Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the
regular billing statement, of the rate and portion of the sewer service
charge which is attributable to Operation, Maintenance and Recovery cost
for wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 93-69. Passed 11-4-93.)
