---
layout: default 
title: 1044.12 OVERSIZING CHARGES.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Oversizing charges, as determined by the Engineer, on sewer lines
installed in the future in the Municipality or territories served by the
Municipal sewerage system, shall be assessed as follows:

​(1) Residential properties which are to be assessed for the cost of the
project shall have the oversizing charges paid for by the Municipality
upon the receipt by the Municipality of an agreement signed by the
property owner and deemed appropriate by the Law Director, which shall,
in essence, require the property owner to repay the Municipality such
oversizing charges and appropriate interest if and when the property in
question is subdivided or split in the future.

​(2) Commercial and retail property owners shall be treated in the same
manner as residential property owners.

​(3) Developers of property which has been subdivided in the
Municipality shall assume the full cost of the mains which the
Municipality deems appropriate through that area, including any
oversizing charges which might be involved.

​(b) This section shall represent the policy of the Municipality from
this point onward and is based upon the basic consideration that the
oversizing of lines throughout the Municipality is necessitated by the
growth which is occurring in and around the Municipality due to
developers subdividing existing land and developing it. Council feels
that the resultant oversizing charges are most equitably borne by those
developers in those situations and, where additional growth is not
caused by existing residences and businesses, that the oversizing
charges on those properties are best borne by the Municipality as a
whole. (Res. 319. Passed 12-21-78.)
