---
layout: default 
title: 1044.20 RIGHT OF ENTRY; OBSERVATION OF SAFETY
RULES; LIABILITY.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) The Inspector or other duly authorized representative of the
Municipality, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with this
chapter. The Inspector or representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes beyond that point having direct bearing on
the kind and source of discharge to the sewers, waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.

​(b) While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection (a) hereof, the Inspector or representative shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury to or the
death of a Municipal employee. The Municipality shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property occasioned by Municipal
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the owner and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the owner to maintain safe conditions as
required in Section [1044.06](4478b588.html)(h).

​(c) The Inspector or representative, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties
through which the Municipality holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works
lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
such easement, shall be done in accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.

(Ord. 923. Passed 12-18-80.)
