---
layout: default
title: "1050&#46;04 RATES AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) The rate schedule for the Storm Water Management Utility shall be as established by this chapter until such time as a different rate structure is adopted by the Council by separate ordinance, based on experience with operating the storm water management utility. 

(Ord. 03-59. Passed 12-4-03.)

(b) The Storm Water Service Charges shall be collected monthly. The collection agent or department for such monthly charges shall be designated by the City Manager. These charges may be billed on a common statement and collected along with other City utility services, or by any other or supplemental method as determined by the City Manager. Amounts of less than ten dollars ($10.00) shall not be refunded on any utility bill overpayment.

(c) Regardless of the party to whom the bill is initially directed, the owner of each parcel of land, as shown from public records at the applicable county recorder's office, shall be responsible for payment of such fee. The City Manager shall have authority to assess a reasonable penalty to all overdue storm water utility bills which approximates the time value of money and/or the administrative cost of rebilling and collection efforts. Charges accruing under the provisions of Section [1050.04](458edbfd.html) are collectible by the City or its authorized agent along with reasonable administrative costs thereon by other means. Reasonable administrative costs associated with the collection of delinquent utility bills include but are not limited to, fees in an amount up to an additional fifty percent (50%) of the total delinquent amount, including the tax amount, interest and penalties of any post judgment account assigned to a collection agency.

(Ord. 10-27. Passed 6-17-10.)