---
layout: default 
title: 1062.06 RATES; BILLING.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Council may prescribe rates for the collection of garbage and
rubbish in accordance with the current contract of the Municipality. All
commercial and residential establishments in the Municipality shall be
billed at the same established residential rate. Commercial
establishments and multifamily dwellings exceeding four units which have
contracted with a licensed collection agency for dumpster service shall
not be required to pay the residential rate. All single-family and each
unit of a multifamily dwelling not exempted due to dumpster service
being available shall be billed at the same established residential
rate, such billing to be part of the utility billing system or any other
system, as determined by Council. The rate shall be set with the
objective of covering the costs of operating the garbage and rubbish
collection system of the Municipality.

(Ord. 803. Passed 3-21-79.)

​(b) The rate for single-family residence, each unit of a multifamily
residence and each commercial establishment, which have not provided for
dumpster service to their establishments according to Municipal
ordinances and rates and regulations, is as set forth in Appendix A of
Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Building and Housing Code of the
Codified Ordinances, for each such residence or unit, payable in
advance. (Ord. 93-46. Passed 7-1-93.)

​(c) The Director of Service shall render a monthly bill in accordance
with the schedule of rates established in subsection (b) hereof. Amounts
of less than ten dollars (\$10.00) shall not be refunded on any utility
bill overpayment. (Ord. 10-27. Passed 6-17-10.)
