---
layout: default
title: "1064&#46;01 DEFINITIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

As used in this chapter the following terms shall have the following meanings:

(a) "Incumbent cable provider" means any person who on the effective date of this section is the holder of a cable franchise agreement with the City as granted pursuant to requirements of 47 U.S.C. 541.

(b) "Miami Valley Communication Council" or "MVCC" means the Miami Valley Communications Council which currently represents its eight member cities of Centerville, Germantown, Kettering, Miamisburg, Moraine, Oakwood, Springboro, and West Carrollton. MVCC is governed by a policy-making body consisting of delegates representing the eight member cities. MVCC additionally maintains agreements with eighteen other Miami Valley political subdivisions who participate as affiliate members. MVCC is managed by an appointed Executive Director and his/her staff.

(c) "PEG" means activities or actions performed for the benefit of public, educational and government programming by the City.

(d) "Video service" means the service defined in Ohio R.C. 1332.21(J).

(e) "Video service authorization" or "VSA" means the authorization granted to a video service provider in accordance with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 1332.21 to 1332.34 et seq.

(f) "Video service provider fee" or "VSP fee" means the fee paid by a VSP in accordance with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 1332.32.

(g) "Video service provider" or "VSP" means a person, firm, or corporation granted a video service authorization under Ohio R.C. 1332.21 to 1332.34 et seq.

(Ord. 07-43. Passed 11-15-07.)