---
layout: default 
title: "1224&#46;07 PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHMENT; HOUSING OFFICER; HOUSING COUNCIL."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Generally. Detailed procedures concerning the establishment of a
community reinvestment area, definitions, the appointment of a Housing
Officer, applications for exemption from taxation, revocation, the
Housing Council and appeals are contained in Ohio R.C. 3735.65 through
3765.70 and are hereby adopted as if wholly rewritten herein.

​(b) Step by Step Procedures. The following is a synopsis of the step by
step procedures to implement and operate a community reinvestment
program.

​(1) The local legislative authority surveys the housing within its
jurisdiction.

​(2) The local legislative authority adopts a resolution describing the
boundaries of the community reinvestment area and containing a statement
of finding concerning the housing facilities or structures of historical
significance within the area.

​(3) The adopted resolution is published in a newspaper of general
circulation once a week for two consecutive weeks.

​(4) The local legislative authority shall designate a Housing Officer
to administer such program.

​(5) The property owner files an application for exemption.

​(6) The Housing Officer verifies the new construction or remodeling and
forwards the application to the County Auditor.

​(7) A Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council shall be appointed
for each such area.

​(8) The Housing Officer and the Housing Council shall make annual
inspections of properties for which an exemption has been granted.

(Ord. 915. Passed 12-4-80.)

​(c) Initiating Authorities. Council may institute a community
reinvestment program by completing steps (1) through (4) of subsection
(b) hereof and ensuring that the Housing Council is constituted
according to the Ohio Revised Code.

The owner of any designated real property in a designated community
reinvestment area may file an application for exemption from real
property taxation, for any new construction or remodeling of sufficient
dollar value, completed after the effective date of the resolution
adopted by Council describing the boundaries of the area. (Ord. 00-22.
Passed 4-6-00.)

​(d) Method of Application. Any owner of real property in a designated
community reinvestment area may obtain an application for exemption from
real property taxation by either visiting or writing the Housing Officer
at the Municipal Building, 280 W. Central Avenue, Springboro, Ohio
45066, and requesting an application form. If request for an application
form is made by letter, it should identify the owner, the reinvestment
area involved and the location, and should also contain a description of
the present property and a brief description and approximate dollar
value of the proposed or underway improvement and, if the work has
already been completed, the date of such completion. Depending on the
nature and size of the improvement, either a short form application or a
more complete questionnaire (copies of which are codified as Appendices
A and B immediately following this chapter) will be supplied to the
applicant. When necessary, additional questions or instructions may be
appended to the application by the Housing Officer.

​(e) Action by the Housing Officer. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the Housing Officer shall verify the construction of the
new building, the costs of the remodeling and facts asserted in the
application. If the proposed improvement complies with all of the
requirements for tax exemption, the Housing Officer shall forward the
application to the County Auditor with a certification as to the section
of the Ohio Revised Code under which the exemption is granted and the
period of the exemption, in years, as determined by the legislative
authority pursuant to that division.

​(f) Starting Date of the Exemption. The tax exemption shall first apply
in the year following the calendar year in which the certification is
made to the County Auditor by the Housing Officer pursuant to subsection
(e) hereof.

(Ord. 915. Passed 12-4-80.)
