---
layout: default
title: "1226&#46;05 STATE ROUTE 73 ACCESS PLAN."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) The Access Plan for State Route 73 and I-75 east to State Route 741 was originally created by:

(1) The OKI Regional Planning Agency in 1982 ("OKI Study"). Portions of the Study have been amended and superseded where applicable by:

  A. Applicable portions of the Woolpert City Wide Mobility Master Plan dated November 2001 and adopted by Ordinance #02-13, March 7, 2002 ("Woolpert Study").

  B. The LJB, Inc. Feasibility Study for Access Road State Route 73 TR 22147 dated May 4, 2005 and adopted by the Planning Commission of the City of Springboro on February 28, 2007.

  C. The LJB, Inc. State Route 73 at Interstate 75 Interchange Modification Study dated October 5, 2005 and passed by Resolution R-06-15 dated April 6, 2006.

(2) Collectively the OKI Study, the applicable portions of the Woolpert Study and the LJB Studies constitute the 73 Thoroughfare Plan for the City of Springboro.

(b) The 73 Thoroughfare Plan defines the location of access points along 73 as well as defines future, among other things, thoroughfare development along 73 and adjacent to 73. Developers and property owners shall be granted access points along the 73 corridor as shown on the 73 Thoroughfare Plan, whenever development on the affected site is commenced.

(c) The only time such access points would not be permitted is when other parcels have been developed nearby which do not comply with the 73 Thoroughfare Plan, thereby making, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the provision of those designated access points in the 73 Thoroughfare Plan not in the best interest of the Municipality.

(d) Those wishing access points different from or in addition to the access points provided in such 73 Thoroughfare Plan shall have the obligation to demonstrate to the Planning Commission why such access points should be provided, supported by appropriate traffic studies prepared by the developer. The City may also have its own independent traffic study prepared. The cost of the City Traffic Study shall be paid by the developer. Unless such evidence is presented, the developer will be denied such access points. Where the developer can show reason sufficient in the minds of a majority of all members of the Planning Commission, such access points may be approved during the site plan review process.

(Ord. 07-34. Passed 8-16-07.)