---
layout: default
title: "1229&#46;03  DEFINITIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:

(a) "Applicant" means any owner, owners, person, persons, association, partnership, or corporation who applies for a Certificate of Appropriateness in order to undertake any change on property subject to this chapter.

(b) "Architectural significance" means being exemplary of one or more periods or styles of architecture typical of one or more eras in the City's history, or being all or part of an assemblage of structures important to the City's history.

(c) "Certificate of Appropriateness" means a certificate issued by the Architectural Review Board indicating that a proposed Change affecting Protected Property is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 00-24. Passed 4-6-00.)

(d) "Change, major" means any alteration, restoration, new exterior construction, demolition, removal, protection or preservation work visibly affecting the exterior of a building or structure, or the grounds of, a Protected Property, but not including landscaping.

(e) "Change, minor" means any alteration or construction that does not change the architectural style of an existing structure and is not a major change.

(Ord. 09-26. Passed 10-1-09.)

(f) "Contributing structure or site" means any structure or site which has been identified by ordinance or resolution of the City Council as having significant value in enhancing, identifying or defining a Historic Preservation District. All other structures or sites within a Historic Preservation District are noncontributing.

(g) "Demolition" means the substantial deterioration or complete or substantial removal or destruction of any contributing structure or site located within a Historic Preservation District, or of any landmark.

(h) "Historic Preservation District" means an area which:

(1) Includes structures having historic or architectural significance; and

(2) Is an identifiable area; and

(3) Has been designated as a Historic Preservation District by official action of the City Council.

(i) "Historic Significance" means:

(1) The attributes of a district, site, or structure that possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feelings and association, and:

  A. Are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history; or

  B. Are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or

   C. Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or method of construction, or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or

  D. Have yielded or may be likely to yield information important in history or prehistory.

(2) Cemeteries, birthplaces, or graves of historical figures, properties owned by religious institutions, properties used for religious purposes, structures that have been moved from their original locations, reconstructed historic buildings, properties commemorative in nature, and properties that have achieved prominence within the past fifty years shall not be considered of historic significance unless they are integral parts of districts that meet the above criteria, or if they fall within the following categories:

  A. A religious property deriving primary significance from architectural or artistic distinction or historical importance; or

  B. A building removed from its original location but which is significant primarily for architectural value, or which is the surviving structure most importantly associated with a historic person or event, or a birthplace or grave of a historical figure of outstanding importance; or 

  C. A cemetery that derives its primary significance from graves of persons of transcendent importance, from age, from distinctive design features, or from association with historic events; or

  D. A reconstructed building is presented in a dignified and significant manner, when no other building with the same historical association has survived; or

  E. A property primarily commemorative in intent, if design, age, tradition, or symbolic value has invested it with its own historical significance; or

  F. A property achieving significance within the past fifty years if it is unique within the City, or if it is of exceptional historical importance.

(j) "Historic Site" means the real property on which a structure having historic significance is located, or on which there is no structure but which is of itself of historical significance.

(k) "Historic Structure" means any improvement to real property which has historic significance.

(l) "Landmark" means a structure or site with historical or architectural significance, not within or contiguous to a designated Historic Preservation District, which has been designated a Landmark by official action of the City Council. 

(Ord. 00-24. Passed 4-6-00.)

(m) "Ordinary repairs and maintenance" means replacement of any part of a property where the purpose and effect of such work is to correct any deterioration or decay to such property or any part thereof, and to restore same, as nearly as may be practicable, to its original condition and appearance, including minor repair of exterior surfaces including caulking, repointing and nonabrasive cleaning.

(Ord. 09-26. Passed 10-1-09.)

(n) "Owner" means the owner or owners of record of real property.

(o) "Protected Property" means any contributing structure or site within a Historic Preservation District, and any landmark, is a property protected by this chapter and subject to its regulations. All vacant lots within a Historic Preservation District are Protected Properties. If a noncontributing structure in a Historic Preservation District is damaged in excess of fifty percent (50%) of its then current market value, or is to be enlarged by more than fifty percent (50%) of its floor area, such structure and its grounds shall become a Protected Property for the purposes of this chapter.

(p) "Site" means one or more lots, parcels or tracts of land which are historically, architecturally, functionally or aesthetically cohesive.

(Ord. 00-24. Passed 4-6-00.)