---
layout: default
title: "1229&#46;10 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Whoever causes or permits a Change in a Protected Property involving demolition, structural alteration or surface materials (other than choice of paint color) in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or both.

(b) Whoever causes or permits a Change to a Protected Property in violation of this chapter but not subject to paragraph (a) above, or fails to comply with the minimum maintenance standards, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both. A second violation of this paragraph shall be deemed a first degree misdemeanor, punishable as such under paragraph (a) above.

(c) Whoever causes or permits any Change to a Protected Property in violation of this chapter shall in addition to the penalties set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, be required to restore the Protected Property to its previous condition, or to a condition approved by the ARB as being in conformance with this chapter.

(d) In the case of failure to comply with minimum maintenance standards, or failure to restore a property under paragraph (c) above, each month's violation shall constitute a separate offense, with the first offense constituting a second degree misdemeanor and each subsequent offense constituting a first degree misdemeanor.

(e) The Law Director is hereby authorized, upon request by the ARB, to seek injunctive orders and to take such other action as he may deem reasonable and prudent to prevent an unlawful Change affecting a Protected Property, or to enforce the correction of unlawful Changes or the maintenance of deteriorating properties.

(Ord. 00-24. Passed 4-20-00.) 