---
layout: default 
title: "1240.02 POLICY."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) It is declared to be the policy of the City of Springboro to
consider the subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the
subdivided plat as subject to the control of the City pursuant to the
comprehensive plan of the City of Springboro, and its subordinate master
plans, for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical development
of the City.

​(b) Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be
used safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from
fire, flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until
adequate public facilities and improvements exist and or proper
provision has been made for drainage, water, sewerage, and capital
improvements such as parks, recreational facilities, transportation
facilities and other improvements.

​(c) The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and
be properly related to the proposals shown in the comprehensive plan,
and its subordinate plans, and infrastructure plans of Springboro.
Further, it is intended that these regulations shall supplement and
facilitate the enforcement of the provisions contained in building and
housing codes, planning and zoning ordinances, and other programs of the
City of Springboro.

​(d) Land that has been subdivided prior to the effective date of these
regulations should, whenever possible, be brought within the scope of
these Regulations to further the purposes of the regulations outlined in
Section [1240.03.](48f65f7e.html)

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
