---
layout: default 
title: "1240&#46;03 PURPOSES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

It is the intention of these Regulations to regulate the subdivision of
land and the development of land so as to further the following
policies:

​(a) To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the City of Springboro;

​(b) To guide the future growth and development of the City of
Springboro in accordance with the comprehensive plan and its subordinate
master plans including, but not limited to, the sewer master plan, water
master plan, and mobility master plan;

​(c) To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to provide safety
from fire, flood, and other dangers, and to prevent overcrowding of the
land and undue congestion;

​(d) To protect the character of the City of Springboro as well as the
social and economic stability of all parts of the City through orderly
and beneficial development of the community; To protect and conserve the
value of land throughout Springboro and the value of buildings and
improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses
of land and buildings;

​(e) To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, drainage, parks,
playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements and community
facilities;

​(f) To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of
land and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the City,
having particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets
and highways and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the
various uses of land and buildings, and to provide for the proper
location and width/design of streets and the buildings that enfront
them;

​(g) To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivision and re- subdivision in order to further the layout and use
of land; and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of
subdivided lands;

​(h) To ensure that public facilities and services are available
concurrent with development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve
the proposed subdivision and that the community will be required to bear
no more than its fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and
services through requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, or
establish mitigation measures to ensure that the development provides
its fair share of capital facilities needs generated by the development;

​(i) To prevent the pollution of air, bodies of water, and the land, to
ensure the effectiveness of drainage facilities, to prevent pollution of
water and land, and to prevent erosion and flooding and to safeguard the
watertable, and to encourage the wise use and management of natural
resources throughout the City in order to preserve the integrity,
stability and beauty of the community and the value of the land;

​(j) To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the City and to
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features;

​(k) To provide for open spaces, including but not limited to parks and
playfields that are not part of the floodplain;

​(l) To provide an efficient design and layout of streets, blocks, and
neighborhoods; and

​(m) To remedy the problems associated with inappropriately subdivided
lands.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
