---
layout: default 
title: "1240&#46;05 JURISDICTION&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

These regulations apply to all subdivision of land located within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Springboro or outside the corporate
limits as provided by laws of the State of Ohio. (No land may be
subdivided through the use of any legal description other than with
reference to a plat approved by the Planning Commission in accordance
with these regulations and the laws of the State of Ohio).

​(a) The Planning Commission shall have the authority to review,
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the sale, lease or
development of lands subdivided following the effective date of these
regulations as follows:

​(b) The plat of the subdivided land was recorded without the prior
approval of the Planning Commission whether or not prior approval was
required at the time the land was subdivided.

​(c) The plat of the subdivided land has been of record for more than
five (5) years and contains contiguous lots in common ownership where
one or more of the contiguous lots are undeveloped, whether the lots are
owned by the original subdivider or an immediate or remote grantee from
the original subdivider.

​(d) The plat has been of record for more than five (5) years and
contains contiguous lots in common ownership where one or more of the
contiguous lots is undeveloped and one or more is nonconforming under
the zoning ordinance, whether the lots are owned or an immediate or
remote grantee from the original subdivider.

​(e) The original subdivider or his successor failed to complete
subdivision improvement requirements pursuant to a subdivision approval
agreement entered into when the plat contains contiguous lots in common
ownership where one or more of the contiguous lots is undeveloped,
whether the lots are owned or an immediate or remote grantee from the
original subdivider; except that this section shall not apply if the
City of Springboro has obtained sufficient funds from security provided
by the subdivider with which to complete construction of improvements in
the subdivision.

​(f) Whenever the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission extends to one
of the situations described above, only the sale, lease, transfer, or
development of an undeveloped lot or lots contiguous to a lot or lots in
common ownership shall be subject to these regulations.

​(g) No land described in this ordinance shall be subdivided or sold,
leased, transferred or developed until each of the following conditions
has occurred in accordance with these regulations:

​(1) The subdivider or his agent has submitted a conforming concept plan
of the subdivision to the Director of Planning; and

​(2) The subdivider or his agent has obtained approval of the concept
plan, a preliminary plan when required, and a record plan from the
Planning Commission; and

​(3) The subdivider or his agent files the approved plans with the
Recorder for Warren or Montgomery County.

​(h) No building permit, certificate of occupancy or land clearing
permit shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land created by
subdivision after the effective date of, and not in substantial
conformity with, the provisions of these Regulations. No construction of
any public or private improvements shall take place or be commenced
except in conformity with these regulations.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
