---
layout: default 
title: "1240&#46;08 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT, AND SEPARABILITY."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these Regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the City of Springboro. These Regulations shall be construed
broadly to promote the purposes for which they are adopted.

​(b) Public Provisions. These Regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation,
statute, or other provision of law except as provided in these
Regulations. Where any provision of these Regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of
these Regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other
provision of law, the provision which is more restrictive or imposes a
higher standards shall control.

​(c) Private Provisions. These Regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement or restriction,
provided that where the provisions of these Regulations are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such
easement, covenant or other private agreement or restriction, the
requirements of these Regulations shall govern. Where the provisions of
the easement, covenant, or private agreement or restriction impose
duties and obligations more restrictive or standards that are higher
than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of the
Planning Commission in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these
Regulations, and the private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and the determinations made under the
Regulations.

​(d) Separability. If any part or provision of these Regulations or the
application of these Regulations to any person or circumstances is
adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the judgement
shall be confined in its operation to the part, provision, or
application directly involved in the controversy in which the judgement
shall be rendered, and it shall not affect or impair the validity of the
remainder of these Regulations or the application of them to other
persons or circumstances. The Springboro City Council hereby declares
that it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even
without any such part, provision, or application which is judged to be
invalid.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
