---
layout: default 
title: 1240.12 VARIANCES, EXCEPTIONS, AND WAIVER OF
CONDITIONS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Variances. Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary
hardships or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance
with these Regulations and/or the purposes of these regulations may be
served to a greater extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve
variances, exceptions, and waiver of conditions to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured, provided that the variance, exception, or waiver
conditions shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of these regulations; and further provided the Planning
Commission shall not approve variances, exceptions, and waiver of
conditions unless it shall make finding based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case that:

​(1) The granting of the variance, exception or waiver of conditions,
will not be detrimental to the public safety, health, or welfare, or
injurious to other property.

​(2) The conditions upon which the request is based are unique to the
property for which the relief is sought and are not applicable generally
to other property.

​(3) Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience, if the strict letter of the regulations is carried out.

​(4) The relief sought will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
Planning and Zoning Code of the City of Springboro or the master plan,
except that those documents may be amended in the manner prescribed by
law.

​(b) Conditions. In approving variances, exceptions of waivers of
conditions, the Planning Commission may require such conditions as will,
in its judgement, secure substantially the purposes described in Chapter
[1240.03](48f65f7e.html) of these Regulations.

​(c) Procedures. A petition for a variance, exception or waiver of
conditions shall be submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time
when the preliminary plat is filed for consideration of the Planning
Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the
application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
