---
layout: default 
title: 1240.13 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) It shall be the duty of the staff of the Planning Director to
enforce the requirements included in these Regulations and to bring to
the attention of the Law Director any violations of these regulations.
No owner, agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel
before a record plan of the subdivision has been approved by the
Planning Commission in accordance with the provision of the regulations
and filed with the Recorder of Montgomery or Warren County. No building
permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or structure
located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of these regulations, nor shall the municipality have any
obligation to issue certificates of occupancy or to extend utility
services to any parcel created in violation of these regulations.

​(b) Any person who violates any provision of these Regulations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined not more
than five-hundred dollars (\$500.00), or imprisoned for not more than
sixty (60) days, or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during on which or which a violation on non-compliance occurs
or continues.

​(c) Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken in law or in
equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or
abate a violation and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building
structure or premises. These remedies shall be in addition to the
penalties described above.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
