---
layout: default 
title: 1244.01 
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

**GENERAL PROCEDURE.**

​(a) Subdivisions. Before any land is subdivided, the owner of the
property to be subdivided, or his authorized agent, shall apply for and
secure approval of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the
following procedures, which include two (2) principal steps for a minor
subdivision and five (5) principal steps for a major subdivision.

​(1) Minor Subdivision:

A. Concept Plan.

B. Record Plan.

​(2) Major Subdivision:

A. Pre-application Conference.

B. Concept Plan.

C. Preliminary Subdivision Plan.

D. Construction Drawings.

E. Record Plan

Table 1.

Summary of Subdivision Application Process, Major Subdivisions, City of
Springboro ***Step*** ***Agency*** ***Module\****

Pre-Application Conference

for major subdivision

Director of Planning

[1244.03](4a3b26b9.html)(a)

Concept Plan Application

Director of Planning

[1244.03](4a3b26b9.html)(b)

Concept Plan Action / Approval

Director of Planning

[1244.03](4a3b26b9.html)(b)

Preliminary Plan Application

Director of Planning

[1244.04](4a4745af.html)

Preliminary Plan Action

Planning Commission

[1244.04](4a4745af.html)(b)

Construction Plans Submitted

for Review

City Engineer

[1244.06](4a65dafb.html)

Record Plan Application

Director of Planning

[1244.07](4a6b5e1a.html)(a)

Record Plan Action

Planning Commission and City Council

[1244.07](4a6b5e1a.html)(a)

Performance and maintenance

bonds submitted

Director of Planning

[1246.01](4ab25716.html)

Record Plan Signatures

City Engineer, Mayor and Clerk of Council for major subdivisions;

Director of Planning for minor subdivisions

[1244.10](4a8a8135.html)

Acceptance of Public Improvements

City Council

[1246.03](4acd95e7.html)

​(b) Official Submission Dates. For the purpose of these regulations,
for both major and minor subdivisions, the date of the meeting of the
Planning Commission at which the public meeting or hearing on approval
of a concept, preliminary or final subdivision plat, including any
adjourned date thereof, is closed, shall constitute the Official
Submission Date, of the plat on which the statutory period required for
formal approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the concept,
preliminary or record plan shall commence to run.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
