---
layout: default
title: "1244&#46;07 RECORD PLAN."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Application Procedure and Requirements. Following the approval of the preliminary plan the applicant may file with the Planning Commission an application for Record Plan approval of a subdivision. The application shall:

(1) Be made on forms available at the City of Springboro, together with a fee as defined in the City of Springboro Schedule of Permit Fees outlined in Section [1464.04](590733b4.html) of the codified ordinances of the City of Springboro.

(2) Include the entire subdivision, or section thereof, which derives access from an existing state, county, or local roadway.

(3) Be accompanied by the number of copies of the record plan and construction plans established by the Director of Planning.

(4) Comply in all respects with the preliminary plan as approved.

(5) Be presented to the Director of Planning in accordance with submission deadline requirements established by the City. 

(6) Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of all streets, sidewalks, local government uses, utilities, parks, and easements, in a form approved by the City of Springboro's Law Director. 

(7) Include text and space on the record plat; specific wording as outlined in the appendix; for signature approval lines, recording dates and signatures, dedications, and the City's record plan general notes. 

(8)  Be accompanied by the subdivider's agreement and security, if required, in a form satisfactory to the Law Director and in an amount established by the City Engineer and shall include a provision that the subdivider shall comply with all the terms of the record plan approval by the Planning Commission and shall include, but not be limited to, the performance of all required subdivision and off-site improvements, and that all improvements and land included in the irrevocable offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the local government free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the premises.

(b) Appeal in the Event of Disapproval. If the Planning Commission disapproves the record plan, the applicant may appeal to the City Council in the manner prescribed in Section [1244.11](4a973fb7.html). 
(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)