1244.08 VESTED RIGHTS AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
=================================================

​(a) Effect of Approval. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
no vested rights shall accrue to the owner or developer of any
subdivision by reason of record plan approval until the actual signing
of the record plan occurs.

​(b) Effect of Recordation. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, no vested rights shall accrue to the owner or developer of any
subdivision by virtue of the recordation of a record plan.

​(c) Applicable Laws. To obtain record plan approval, the applicant
shall be in compliance with all federal and state laws applicable at the
time that the final plan is considered for approval by the Planning
Commission. The applicant also shall be in compliance with all local
laws and regulations applicable at the time that the preliminary plat
was submitted to the Planning Commission in accordance with Section
[1244.04](4a4745af.html), except that the applicant shall comply with
those local laws and regulations in effect at the time that the final
plan is considered for approval by the commission if the Planning
Commission makes a determination on the record that compliance with any
of those local laws and regulations is reasonably necessary to protect
the public health and safety. If the Planning Commission required the
applicant to complete public improvements in the subdivision prior to
record plan approval, and the improvements have, in fact been completed,
the applicant may be required to comply with local laws and regulations
in effect at the time that the record plan is considered for approval
only if the Planning Commission makes a finding on the record that such
compliance is necessary to prevent a substantial risk of injury to
public health, safety and general welfare.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
