---
layout: default
title: "1244&#46;10 SIGNING AND RECORDING OF RECORD PLAN."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Signing of the Record Plan.

(1) When a subdivider's agreement and security are required, the Mayor, Clerk of Council, and City Engineer shall sign the record plan after the agreement and security have been approved by the City Council as indicated in Section [1244.10](4a8a8135.html)(b).

(2) When installation of improvements is required prior to recording, evidence shall be provided to the City Engineer by an as-built drawing prepared and sealed by a professional engineer or surveyor and submitted to the city. 

(3) Should a homeowners association be established, the developer shall provide copies of the documents to the city for review and approval. The developer shall record the homeowner association documents prior to the city signing the record plan.

(b) Recordation of Plat.

(1) The Mayor, Clerk of Council, and City Engineer shall sign the number of copies of the reproducible mylar of the record plan according to the rules set out by the City Engineer. 

(2) A performance bond, or cash escrow, in an amount of the proposed construction improvements as determined by the City Engineer shall be submitted to the City Engineer prior to signing of the Record Plan. 

(3) It shall be the responsibility of the City to file the record plan with recorder's office of Warren or Montgomery County within ten (10) business days of the date of signature. All city-related fees shall be paid by the developer before the record plan is recorded.

(4) Assignment of street address by the City Engineer shall occur after the recording of the record plan.

  (Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)