---
layout: default 
title: "1248&#46;01 GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Conformance to Applicable Rules and Regulations. In addition to the
requirements established in these regulations, all subdivisions shall
comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations:

\*\*\*\*\*\*(1) All applicable state and federal statutory provisions.

​(2) Adopted plans and policies, and all other applicable laws of the
City of Springboro or other appropriate jurisdictions.

​(3) The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the
Health Department and/or appropriate state or substate agencies.

​(4) The Standard Construction Drawings and Specifications established
by the City Engineer.

​(5) Record plan approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in
conformity with the above laws, regulations, guidelines, and policies as
well as the purposes of these regulations.

​(b) Subdivisions Straddling Municipal Boundaries. Whenever access to
the subdivision is requested across land in another local government,
the Planning Commission shall request assurance from the Law Director
that access is legally established, and from the City Engineer that the
access street is adequately improved, or that a guarantee has been duly
executed and is sufficient in amount to assure the construction of the
access street. In general, lot lines should be laid out so as not to
cross municipal boundary lines.

​(c) Monuments. The applicant shall place permanent reference monuments
in the subdivision certified by a professional surveyor. Concrete
monuments shall be located along external subdivision boundaries and as
determined by the City Engineer. Iron pins shall be located at all lot
corners, points of tangency, curvature, at points as determined by the
City Engineer. All monumentation shall be in accordance with the minimum
standards outlined in ORC Section 4733.37.03.

​(d) Land Suitability. Land that the Planning Commission finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding, improper
drainage, steep slopes, rock formation, adverse earth formations or
topography, utility easements, or other features that will reasonably be
harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present or
future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas,
shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are
formulated by the developer and approved by the Planning Commission,
upon recommendation of the City Engineer, to solve the problems created
by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set aside for uses
as shall not involve any danger to public health, safety, and welfare.

​(e) Street and Subdivision Names.\*\*The proposed name of the
subdivision or proposed streets shall not duplicate, or too closely
approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision or
thoroughfare in the fire district serving the City. The City Engineer in
consultation with the Police Department shall have final authority to
approve the names of the subdivisions and streets. In general, a street
which is (or is planned as) a continuation, through an intersection, of
an existing street shall bear the same name.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)
