---
layout: default
title: "1248&#46;05 SANITARY SEWER FACILITIES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) General Requirements*.* The proposed development's sanitary sewer system shall comply with the City of Springboro's Sanitary Sewer Master Plan. All sanitary sewer facilities required as part of these Subdivision Regulations shall conform to the City of Springboro Standard Construction Drawing and Specifications as maintained by the City Engineer.

(b) Design Criteria for Sanitary Sewers.

(1) General guidelines*. *These design criteria may not adequately cover extraordinary situations. Deviations from these criteria will be allowed and may be required in those instances when the City Engineer makes the determination that the extraordinary situation requires the deviations in order to carry out the purposes of these subdivision regulations in accordance with generally accepted engineering practice as applied to the specific facts of the development.

(2) Design factors*.* Sanitary sewer systems should be designed for the ultimate tributary population. The Director of Planning and the City Engineer should provide the Planning Commission with a report with their best judgement on the anticipated population to be served by the sewer based upon available zoning regulations, planning and zoning reports, census data, and anticipated increase in demand caused by the installation of the proposed addition to the sanitary sewer system.

(3) Minimum size*.* No public sewer shall be less than eight inches (8") in diameter. All single-family residential sewer lateral shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in diameter. All other sewer laterals shall be a minimum of six inches (6").

(4) Alignment*. *All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between manholes. 

(5) Manhole location*.* Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line; at all changes in grade, size, or alignment; at sewer intersections; and at distances not greater than 400 feet for sewers 15 inches and smaller, and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches in diameter and larger.

(6) Manholes. The difference in elevation between any incoming sewer and the manhole invert shall not exceed twelve inches (12") except where required to match crowns. The use of drop manholes will require approval by the City Engineer. The minimum inside diameter of the manholes shall conform to those specified by the City Engineer. Inside drop manholes are not permitted. When a smaller sewer joins a larger one, the crown of the smaller sewer shall not be lower than that of the larger one. 

(7) Sanitary sewer locations*.* Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-way unless specifically approved by the City Engineer. When located in easements on private property, access shall be provided to all manholes. Not less than four feet (4') of cover shall be provided over the top of pipe.

(8) Cleanouts and lampholes*.* Cleanouts and lampholes shall not be permitted. Cleanouts shall be permitted on sewer laterals at one hundred foot (100') intervals.

(9) Water supply interconnections*.* Interconnections between the water and sewer lines shall not be permitted as per Ohio Department of Environmental Protection (EPA) standards.

(10) Relation of sewers to water mains.* *Water and sewer lines shall be separated as per Ohio EPA standards.

(11) No connections to roof drains shall be permitted.

  (Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)