---
layout: default
title: "1248&#46;06 LOT LAYOUT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Lot Arrangement*. *The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the Planning and Zoning Code, Building Codes, and Health Regulations as well as in providing driveway access to buildings on the lots from an approved street.

(b) Lot Dimensions; Flag Lots. Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the Planning and Zoning Code. Flag lots and flag-type lots shall be prohibited.

(c) Lot Orientation and Lot Line Placement.. 

(1) The lot line common to the street right-of-way shall be the front lot line. Wherever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear line does not abut the side line of an adjacent lot.

(2) Side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless approved by the City Engineer. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front-yard setback from both frontages.

(3) Minimum lot width shall be maintained at both the front and rear yard lines.

(d) Double Frontage Lots. Double frontage, excluding corner lots, are prohibited except where necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation, and as specifically permitted by the Planning Commission. Access shall be limited only to one local street.

(e) Access to Lots

(1) Every lot shall abut and gain access from a dedicated public street, a private street, or a public access easement.

(2) When circumstances dictate that lots gain access from an arterial or larger type street, the Planning Commission may require that such lots be served by a combined access drive or rear alleys in order to limit possible traffic hazards on the arterial street.

(3) Driveways serving more than one residential property shall have a minimum pavement width of eighteen feet (18'). Residential driveways shall have a maximum width of twenty feet (20') measured at the right of way. 
(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)