---
layout: default 
title: "1248&#46;09 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) General*.* Existing natural features that would add value to
residential development or to the City as a whole shall be preserved if
practical in the design of the subdivision.

​(b) Shade/Street Trees*.* Placement and size of trees shall comply with
the requirements of the Tree Authority regulations based on the type of
tree.

​(c) Monarch Trees*.* If a tree that has been designated a Monarch Tree
by the City is located on the site, the developer shall comply with the
requirements of the Tree Authority regulations for Monarch Trees,
Chapter [280](190dab57.html) of the Codified Ordinances.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)

1248.10 NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with
respect to the land shall make provision as the Planning Commission may
require. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may
proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the Planning Commission. A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of
these regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the
Planning Commission, and shall conform to the proposed land use and
standards established in the Comprehensive Plan and other adopted plans
and policies of the City of Springboro.

​(b) Standards*.* In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions,
the applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Planning
Commission that the street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is
specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into account
other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and standards shall
be observed.

​(1) Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.

​(2) Street rights-of-way, pavement and design shall be adequate to
accommodate the type and volume of vehicular traffic and pedestrian
traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.

​(3) Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to
street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.

​(4) Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and storm
water drainage.

​(5) Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisances from a proposed commercial or industrial
subdivision, including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing
up on existing or potential residential development and provisions for a
permanently landscaped buffer strip when necessary. (Ord. 04-41. Passed
8-19-04.)
