---
layout: default
title: "1250&#46;02 PRELIMINARY PLANS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) General. The preliminary plan shall be prepared by a planner, by a professional surveyor or by a professional engineer at a convenient scale not more than one inch (1") equals one hundred feet (100'). The sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one (1) sheet is used and shall be of such size as is acceptable for filing in the office of the City Engineer. Sheets shall not be larger than twenty-four inches (24") by thirty-six inches (36") in size. 

(b) Features. The preliminary Plan shall show the following:

(1) The location of property with respect to surrounding property, streets, and land uses;

(2) Indication of the use of any lot and all uses other than residential proposed;

(3) The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;

(4) The location of existing streets, easements, water bodies, streams, trees, and other pertinent features such as swamps, buildings, parks, cemeteries, drainage ditches, and bridges as determined by the City Engineer.

(5) The location of proposed water supply, sanitary sewer, and storm water infrastructure.

(6) The location, width, curve radius and grades of all existing and proposed streets and easements, alleys, and other public ways.

(7) Indicate the location of permanent monuments and markers when the perimeter boundary changes direction.

(8) Easement and proposed street rights-of-way and building set-back lines;

(9) The locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing lots;

(10) The location and dimensions of all property proposed to be set aside for park or playground use, or other public or private reservation, with designation of the purpose of those set asides, and conditions, if any, of the dedication or reservation;

(11) The name and address of the owner or owners of land to be subdivided, the names and address of the subdivider if other than the owner, and the name of the land surveyor, engineer or land planner;

(12) The date of the map, approximate north point, scale and title of the subdivision;

(13) All information required on the concept plan should also be shown on the preliminary plan.

(c) The lack of information under any item specified herein, or improper information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for disapproval of a preliminary plan;

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.) 