---
layout: default
title: "1250&#46;04 RECORD PLANS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) General. The record plan shall be presented on reproducible mylar at a scale no more than one inch equals forty feet (1"=40') and map sheets shall be twenty-four inches (24') by thirty-six (36') in size. The following must be indicated:

(1) Notation of any self imposed restrictions, and locations of any building lines proposed to be established in this manner, if required by the Planning Commission in accordance with these regulations;

(2) Endorsement of the plan by every person having a security interest in the subdivision property that they are subordinating their liens to all covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property;

(3) Consecutive lots numbered as approved by the City Engineer; and

(4) All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners or other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by legend. The legend for metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, length and weight per lineal foot of the monuments as per Ohio R.C. 4733.37.03.

(b) Security. All requirements of Module Four of these regulations shall be followed in regards to performance and maintenance bonds.

(c) Preparation. The record plan shall be prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the State of Ohio.

(d) Specifications. Record Plans shall include the following information:

(1) Name and seal of the licensed land surveyor.

(2) Primary control points acceptable to the City Engineer to which pertinent engineering data is tied.

(3) Boundaries, with distances, bearings and the location of monuments. Such dimensions shall be in feet and hundredths of a foot.

(4) Street lines, street names, lot lines and lot identification numbers, easements and other uses of land.

(5) Radii, length of curves, internal angles, chord length and bearing, and tangent lengths.

(6) Minimum building setback lines.

(7) The location of all watercourses.

(8) Certification showing that the applicant is the owner of the land.

(9) A statement dedicating streets, rights of way, easements, or other areas for public use as may be required by the City.

(10) Other certificates or affidavits as required by City Council.

(11) The location of all monument points.

(e) Notes. The record plan shall have the following notes:

(1) Roof drains, foundation drains or other clean water connections to the sanitary sewer system are prohibited.

(2) Backflow prevention devices shall be installed as per city ordinance number 0-90-36.

(3) No person shall install any pump, piping device, apparatus or other such system for discharging sump pump effluent into the public right-of-way without the approval of the City Engineer.

(4) The City of Springboro assumes no legal obligation to maintain or repair any open drainage ditches or channels designated as drainage easement on this plat.

(5) All sump drains, detention basins, islands, and open space lots shall be maintained by the homeowner's association.

(f) Signatures. The following language and signatures are required on record plans:

State of Ohio

County of Warren/Montgomery

On the &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;day of &#95;&#95;before my the subscriber, a Notary Public of the State of Ohio, personally appeared &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95; who acknowledged the accompanying plan to be the official plan of highways and or subdivision situated in the City of Springboro, Montgomery/Warren County, Ohio and desired that said plans be recorded according to law. Witness my hand and Notarial Seal the day and year aforesaid.

&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;

Notary Public

My Commission expires&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;

Approved by Council and the Municipality of Springboro this &#95;&#95;&#95;day of &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;.

Attest:  &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95; &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;

Clerk of Council   Mayor

&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;

City Engineer

Recorded in the Warren/Montgomery County Recorder's Office 

Deed Book&#95;&#95;, Page Number &#95;&#95;&#95; on &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;

By &#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;&#95;.

Plans, when approved, will be signed on behalf of the City by the Mayor and the City Engineer and attested by the Clerk of Council. After recording, one (1) copy on reproducible mylar shall be filed in the office of the Engineer.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)