---
layout: default 
title: 1262.20 VARIANCES.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby authorized to authorize, upon
appeal in specific cases, a variance from this Zoning Code as will not
be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of this Zoning Code would result in unnecessary
hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming use of
lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for the issuance of a variance. A variance from this Zoning Code
shall not be granted by the Board unless and until the following
procedure is followed.

​(a) A written application for a variance shall be submitted
demonstrating that:

​(1) Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same district.

​(2) A literal interpretation of this Zoning Code would deprive the
applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same
district under this Zoning Code.

​(3) The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.

​(4) Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this Zoning Code to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.

​(b) Notice of the public hearing shall be given as provided in Section
[1262.19](4d6707e7.html)(b).

​(c) The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person or
by an agent or attorney.

​(d) The Board shall make findings that the requirements of subsection
(a) hereof have been met by the applicant for a variance.

​(e) The Board shall further make a finding that the reasons set forth
in the application justify the granting of the variance, and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable
use of the land, structure or building.

​(f) The Board shall further make a finding that the granting of the
variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
Zoning Code and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.

(Ord. 546B. Passed 2-25-76.)
