---
layout: default 
title: "1264&#46;06 R-3 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Purpose; Permitted and Prohibited Uses. The purpose of the R-3
District is to provide land for single and multifamily permanent housing
units. A variety of housing and building types is encouraged within this
District. Commercial development is prohibited. Groups or central water
and sewer facilities are required.

Specifically included in this zoning are apartments, condominiums,
single-family detached homes, single-family cluster housing and other
similar single and multifamily housing units.

​(b) Open Space Requirements. For single-family attached and
single-family detached homes, apartments and condominiums, at least
twenty percent of the total acres in a proposed development area (DA)
permitted under this section shall be dedicated to open space or
recreation facilities exclusive of dwellings, streets, parking areas and
other impervious areas where the land is not open to the sun. Such open
space shall be clearly shown on the site plan and shall be physically
situated so as to be readily accessible to, available to, and usable by,
all residents of the development area.

​(c) Maintenance of Common Open Space and Conveyance Procedures.

​(1) Provisions acceptable to the Planning Commission must be included
in the site plan for maintenance of all common open spaces in the
development area. All common open space shown on the site plan must be
conveyed by leasing or conveying title (including beneficial ownership)
to a corporation, homes association or other similar entity. The terms
of such lease or other instrument of conveyance must include provisions
suitable to the Planning Commission for guaranteeing:

A. The continued use of such land for intended purposes;

B. Continuity of proper maintenance;

C. When appropriate, the availability of funds required for such
maintenance;

D. Adequate insurance protection; and

E. Recovery for loss sustained by casualty, condemnation or otherwise.

In any event, the developer must file legal documents which will produce
the aforesaid guarantees and, in particular, shall provide a method for
restricting use of common open space for the designated purposes as a
requirement of the site plan.

​(2) In certain circumstances, the land may be conveyed to the
Municipality by dedication to the Municipality as publicly owned and
maintained open space where the Planning Commission, the Park and
Recreation Board and Council agree that such proposed open space fits
within the General Development Plan for park development within the
Municipality and is acceptable to the Municipality with regard to the
size, shape and location of such land and the improvements thereon. In
addition, the developer must show that the dedication of such areas will
be of benefit to the general public. Under these circumstances, such
land may be used to satisfy the open space requirements of this section.

(Ord. 952. Passed 5-22-81.)
