---
layout: default 
title: 1264.065 RBD RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Purposes. The purpose of the RBD District is to allow certain
retail and office functions to be performed in an area originally built
primarily for residential uses but which is now in transition to mixed
use. Further, the purpose is to allow for a transition to mixed use
while retaining the essentially residential nature and appearance of the
general area, to encourage the continued use of the area as a
residential area as well as a commercial district and to maximize the
compatibility of this mixed use development with immediately adjacent
residential properties.

In order to achieve the purposes of the District, not all uses that are
customarily associated with residential-limited retail office districts
are included as permitted uses or conditional uses.

​(b) Permitted Uses. Permitted uses are as follows:

​(1) Single-family dwellings;

​(2) Multifamily dwellings;

​(3) Mixed residential and commercial uses as otherwise permitted by
this section;

​(4) Offices, such as professional and business, provided that the
products sold are either manufactured on site, sold as parts or
accessories to products sold or manufactured on site or stored or
distributed by the owner or lessee of the office, and further provided
that not more than thirty percent of the floor space of the main
building may be devoted to retail sales, as permitted in this paragraph,
and that service facilities are limited to the repair and/or service of
products manufactured, stored or distributed by the owner or lessee of
the office;

​(5) Personal service agencies, such as real estate agencies, insurance
agencies, security services, messenger services, computer services,
travel agencies, etc.;

​(6) Home occupations. Section [1260.05](4c942bd2.html)(16), which
otherwise defines "home occupations," shall not apply to this district.
In this district, "home occupations" means that:

A. Not more than two persons not residing on the premises shall be
engaged in such occupation.

B. There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home
occupation, other than such signs as are otherwise provided for
businesses in Chapter [1276](54966c10.html).

C. Not more than fifty percent of the floor space of the dwelling unit
shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation.

D. Use of accessory buildings for the home occupation is permitted only
as a conditional use.

E. Parking needed for traffic generated by the conduct of the home
occupation shall not be permitted in the front yard. Where the property
is served by an alley, parking shall be provided off the alley.

F. No equipment or process shall be used in the home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is
conducted in a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if
conducted in other than a single-family residence. In the case of
electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which
creates visible or audible interference in any radio or television
receiver off the premises or causes fluctuation in the voltages off the
premises.

​(7) All uses permitted in the B-2 District and not provided for
elsewhere herein;

​(8) Other general retail outlets; and

​(9) Public and quasipublic uses.

​(c) Conditional Uses. Conditional uses are as follows:

​(1) Churches;

​(2) Day-care centers;

​(3) Private schools;

​(4) Nursing homes;

​(5) Outside storage facilities; and

​(6) Restaurants and beverage establishments, including those in which
beer, wine and liquor are available for immediate consumption within the
principal buildings or outdoor seating area. However, fast-food
restaurants and drive-in restaurants are specifically prohibited.

(Ord. 981. Passed 10-1-81.)
