---
layout: default 
title: 1264.07 B-1 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Purposes. The purpose of the B-1 District is to reserve land for
business uses which by their nature are typically dependent on having a
high traffic, high visibility location and/or which generate substantial
amounts of traffic either continuously or at peak periods. Because these
uses should be located on thoroughfares, B-1 zoning shall be used
primarily along the major traffic corridors within the City and in
connection with major intersections of those corridors. B-1 zoning
should be used only to the extent necessary to satisfy the needs of
local inhabitants, even though the regional market may demand more. A
secondary purpose of the district is to reserve additional land for uses
permitted under the B-2 Local Business District.

​(b) Permitted Uses. Only the following uses shall be permitted, subject
to Site Plan Review pursuant to Chapter [1280](54f1829c.html) and all
other municipal ordinances, regulations and state and federal laws:

​(1) All uses permitted in the B-2 Local Business District.

​(2) Automobile fueling stations on less than two acres.

​(3) Car washes.

​(4) Automobile rental agencies.

​(5) Vehicle repair and service facilities; parts and accessory sales.

​(6) Theaters with not more than two screens or stages.

​(7) Plumbing, electrical and HVAC contractors and wholesale/retail
supplies.

​(8) Farm equipment and agricultural supplies.

​(9) Medical care facilities occupying more than 15,000 square feet of
floor area.

​(10) Animal hospitals and veterinarians occupying more than 3,000
square feet of floor area.

​(11) Department stores occupying not more than 20,000 square feet of
floor area.

​(12) Fitness, dance and martial arts facilities occupying more than
2,000 square feet of floor area.

​(13) Food stores occupying not more than 20,000 square feet of floor
area.

​(14) Hardware/home supply stores occupying more than 3,000 square feet
of floor area.

​(15) Video stores occupying more than 3,000 square feet of floor area.

​(16) Sporting goods stores occupying more than 3,000 square feet of
floor area.

​(17) Pool, spa, outdoor furniture, play equipment or home improvement
sales.

​(18) Shopping centers or malls containing not more than 40,000 square
feet of retail space.

​(19) Other similar uses as determined by the Zoning Inspector or Board
of Zoning Appeals. (Ord. 00-15. Passed 2-17-00.)

​(20) Drug stores occupying not more than 20,000 square feet of floor
area.

(Ord. 03-40. Passed 8-21-03.)

​(c) Certain Facilities Permitted. Drive-in and drive-through facilities
are permitted in the B-1 District. Outdoor storage of goods or business
equipment is permitted, but only in the side or rear yard of the parcel
on which the business is located (for the purposes of this restriction,
corner lots have two (2) front yards. (Ord. 00-15. Passed 2-17-00.)

​(d) Lot and Building Development Requirements. The following
requirements shall apply to development in the B-1, Highway Business
Zoning District:

​(1) Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size for development in the B-1
District shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.

​(2) Maximum building height. Buildings shall not exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height.

​(3) Yard requirements. The following are yard requirements for the B-1
District:

Minimum lot width: 100 feet

Minimum front yard setback: 35 feet

Minimum side and rear yard setback: 10 feet

Minimum side and rear setbacks

accessory structure 10 feet

​(e) Development Standards.

​(1) Landscaping. All development within a B-1 District shall conform to
landscape development standards contained within this Zoning Ordinance
and the Tree Preservation Authority Ordinance (280 of the City Code).

(Ord. 04-21. Passed 6-3-04.)

​(2) Parking. All off-street parking within a B-1 District development
shall conform to parking standards within Section
[1271.04](52a9c549.html) of this Planning and Zoning Ordinance. (Ord.
06-12. Passed 5-18-06.)

​(3) Loading. All off-street loading within a B-1 District shall conform
to parking standards within Section [1270.15](5104e454.html) of this
Planning and Zoning Ordinance.

​(4) Signage. All signage treatment within a B-1 Office District
development shall conform to signage standards contained within the Sign
Code of the City of Springboro (Chapter [826](39f755a4.html) of Codified
Ordinances).

​(5) Lighting. Development within a B-1 Office District shall conform to
the lighting standards of the City of Springboro.

(Ord. 04-21. Passed 6-3-04.)
