---
layout: default 
title: "1264&#46;08 B-2 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Purposes. The purpose of the B-2 District is to reserve land for
business uses which are smaller in scale and serve repeat customers from
the local community. In some instances, these uses may enjoy significant
pedestrian business from nearby neighborhoods. Typically, they do not
generate large amounts of vehicular traffic and are not critically
dependent on having a high traffic, high visibility location for
marketing purposes.

​(b) Permitted Uses. Only the following uses shall be permitted, subject
to Site Plan Review pursuant to Chapter [1280](54f1829c.html) and all
other Municipal ordinances, regulations and state and federal laws:

​(1) Business and professional offices.

​(2) Banks and financial institutions, with or without drive-through
facilities.

​(3) Restaurants and coffee shops.

​(4) Bed and breakfast facilities.

​(5) Greenhouses, garden centers and farm markets, with or without
outdoor storage.

​(6) Medical care facilities occupying not more than 15,000 square feet
of floor area.

​(7) Animal hospitals and veterinarians occupying not more than 3,000
square feet of floor area.

​(8) Personal service establishments including:

A. Barber and beauty shops.

B. Therapeutic massage facilities.

C. Tanning salons.

D. Nail salons.

E. Fitness, dance and martial arts facilities occupying not more than
2,000 square feet of floor area

​(9) Food stores occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of floor
area.

​(10) Drug stores occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of floor
area.

​(11) Hardware, home supply, electronics or appliance stores occupying
not more than 3,000 square feet of floor area.

​(12) Floor covering stores.

​(13) Video stores occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of floor
area

​(14) Retail bakeries.

​(15) Churches and parsonages.

​(16) Mortuaries and funeral homes.

​(17) Public schools, private schools and day care centers.

​(18) Gift shops.

​(19) Antique and craft shops, art and photography studios and
galleries.

​(20) Laundries and dry cleaners, with or without drive-through
facilities.

​(21) Office supplies/services occupying not more than 3,000 square feet
of floor area.

​(22) Beverage stores occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of floor
area.

​(23) Nursing homes and convalescent care facilities.

​(24) Florists.

​(25) Sporting goods stores occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of
floor area.

​(26) Pet shops occupying not more than 3,000 square feet of floor area.

​(27) Shoe and shoe repair shops.

​(28) Shopping centers containing not more than 15,000 square feet of
retail space.

​(29) Other similar uses as determined by the Zoning Inspector or Board
of Zoning Appeals.

​(c) Certain Facilities and Practices Prohibited. Unless specifically
permitted above, drive-in or drive-through facilities are not permitted
in the B-2 District due to their stacking requirements and traffic
generation potential, even though associated with a use otherwise
permitted. Unless specifically permitted above, outdoor storage of goods
or business equipment is not permitted. (Ord. 00-15. Passed 2-17-00.)
