---
layout: default 
title: "1264&#46;10 B-4 DESTINATION BUSINESS DISTRICT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Purposes. The purpose of the B-4 District is to reserve land for
commercial uses which attract a regional clientele because of the
quantity, quality, variety or specialized nature of the goods or
services offered. These uses are often large in scale, or occupy a
portion of a multiple occupancy complex which includes large-scale
"anchor" uses. Thus these uses are typically associated with large-scale
development and high traffic volumes. A secondary purpose of the
district is to reserve additional land for those uses permitted in the
B-1 Highway Business District.

​(b) Permitted Uses. Only the following uses shall be permitted, subject
to Site Plan Review pursuant to Chapter [1280](54f1829c.html) and all
other municipal ordinances, regulations and state and federal laws:

​(1) All uses permitted in the B-1 Highway Business District, without
limitation as to floor area.

​(2) Hotels, motels, lodging houses, dormitories, conference centers.

​(3) Theaters without limitation as to the number of stages or screens.

​(4) Cemetery monument sales.

​(5) Other similar uses as determined by the Zoning Inspector or Board
of Zoning Appeals.

​(c) Certain Facilities Permitted. Those facilities expressly permitted
under subsection (c) of Section [1264.07](4e266f74.html), B-1 Highway
Business District, are permitted to the same extent in this district.

(Ord. 00-15. Passed 2-17-00.)
