---
layout: default 
title: 1264.15 ED EMPLOYMENT CENTER DISTRICT.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Purpose. The purpose of the ED District is to provide for
employment parks that would combine and integrate light industrial
and/or manufacturing uses with offices and similar land use functions
for the purpose of augmenting the Municipal property tax base and
employment opportunities. The ED District is located in close proximity
to interstate highway interchange areas (existing or planned) or have
access to a primary highway system.

​(b) Permitted Uses Generally. The following office and similar uses are
permitted in the ED District:

​(1) Professional and business offices, provided that no merchandise,
material or equipment is stored outside the buildings;

​(2) Research laboratories, provided that such research activities do
not involve or support products manufactured on the site;

​(3) Restaurants and beverage establishments, including beer, wine and
liquor for immediate consumption within the principal buildings or
outdoor seating areas;

​(4) Banks, savings and loan associations, investment companies, credit
bureaus, brokers and similar financial institutions;

​(5) Business colleges, trade schools, art schools and similar
commercially operated schools;

​(6) Personal service agencies, such as real estate agencies, insurance
agencies, security services, messenger services, computer services and
travel agencies;

​(7) Pharmacies, medical and dental offices, clinics and laboratories
incidental to such uses;

​(8) Hospitals, including cafeterias and snack bars designed for use of
the hospital visitors and employees, and ambulatory health care
facilities;

​(9) Hotels, motels or conference centers, provided that the design,
layout and ingress and egress roads are approved by the Planning
Commission and provided, further, that the written approval of the
County Health Officer, containing necessary requirements for maintaining
health standards, is filed with the Commission before a zoning
certificate is issued. No permit shall be issued until the application
conforms with an approved site development plan and with the
requirements of the County Health Officer and the State Fire Marshal;

​(10) Museums, art galleries and libraries; and

​(11) Buildings used primarily for worship. (Ord. 878. Passed 3-20-80.)

​(12) Sexually oriented businesses, as defined in Chapter
[840](3c52e21b.html), Sexually Oriented Businesses, of the Business
Regulation and Taxation Code.

​(13) Computerized internet sweepstakes cafes, as defined in Chapter
[850](3dd24e0a.html), Computerized Internet Sweepstakes Cafes, of the
Business Regulation and Taxation Code. (Ord. 11-13. Passed 6-16-11.)

​(c) Accessory Uses Generally. The following accessory uses are
permitted:

​(1) The raising of garden crops, vineyard crops, fruits and plants;

​(2) Private greenhouses, barns, silos, arboretums and other accessory
buildings or uses customarily accessory to a permitted use;

​(3) Private off-street parking areas for vehicles registered in the
names of site residents and/or property owners;

​(4) Farm produce stands, not to exceed 300 square feet in floor area,
for the retail sales of crops, produce, flowers, livestock and poultry
products, etc., grown or produced on the lot on which each building is
located. Appropriate on-site parking spaces shall be provided.

​(5) Private recreational facilities such as swimming pools, basketball
courts and tennis courts, reserved for the use of on-site residents,
their guests and employees; and

​(6) Home occupations.

​(d) Bulk Regulations Generally. Structures shall cover thirty-five
percent of the lot.

​(e) Minimum Requirements Generally. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed:

​(1) Zoning District size, not to prohibit the sale or lease of a lot
therein: 5 acres. No zoning or rezoning shall be permitted which would
create an area zoned ED District which does not include at least five
acres of contiguous property. The minimum District size of five acres
may include contiguous land owned by one or more owners. The sale or
lease of lots within the District shall not be prohibited.

​(2) Building or use setback is as follows:

A. Residential Districts - as determined by the Planning Commission
through the site plan review procedure.

B. All other districts or public rights of way - as determined by the
Commission through the site plan review procedure.

​(3) Open space, including landscaped areas: 20 percent

​(4) As used in this subsection, "open space" means only that ground
which is open to the sun.

​(f) Light Manufacturing Uses. The following uses and similar uses are
permitted in the ED District, unless any listed use involves the
manufacturing, processing or storage of explosives or highly volatile
materials; chemicals other than petroleum products; radioactive
materials; toxic gases, substances or chemicals; or any other hazardous
materials that, if they escape from the premises, could endanger the
health, safety and welfare of the immediate area.

When the proposed use does involve any of the above listed materials,
permission to establish such use in the ED District shall be granted by
the Planning Commission as part of the site plan review process
following submission of evidence satisfactory to the Commission that the
proposed use of such materials will not represent a significant
potential danger to the health, safety and welfare of the immediate
area. The Commission is hereby authorized to require the applicant to
furnish evidence of the potential health, safety and welfare risks
involved in the proposed use by certified industrial hygienists,
professional engineers or other suitably qualified experts, and is
hereby further authorized to prescribe such requirements, performance
standards and/or regulations as it deems appropriate to reduce these
potential risks to a level acceptable to the Commission. Where the
applicant is unwilling or unable to meet such requirements, standards
and/or regulations, permission to establish and operate such a use in
this District shall be denied or revoked. Further, where the Planning
Commission finds that even with the imposition of such requirements,
standards and/or regulations, the proposed use still represents a
significant potential danger to the health, safety and welfare of the
immediate area, permission to establish and operate such a use in this
District shall be denied.

​(1) General light manufacturing, including photographic equipment,
precision instruments, camera products, electronic equipment, musical
instruments, optical equipment, medical supplies, toys, novelties,
wrought iron products and sporting goods;

​(2) Home goods and furniture manufacturing, including household
appliances, jewelry, silverware, stationery, leather goods, but
excluding tanning;

​(3) Clothing and apparel manufacturing;

​(4) The fabrication of wood products, including cabinets, furniture,
building materials and containers, but excluding the manufacture of wood
products and wood byproducts directly;

​(5) The fabrication of paper products, including stationery, bags,
boxes and containers, but excluding the manufacturing of paper,
paperboard or paper products directly;

​(6) The manufacturing of pharmaceutical products, cosmetics and other
toiletry items, but not including the manufacturing of soaps, shampoos
or other cleaning substances;

​(7) The light manufacture and assembling of plastics and metal
products, provided that any forging, stamping, molding or assembly of
such materials or products is not discernible from outside the building;

​(8) Food and drink production, processing, packaging and distribution
for dairy products, food products, bakery products, nonalcoholic
beverages, spices, ice and meats, excluding slaughtering;

​(9) Warehouses, truck terminals, moving and storage establishments and
cold storage, provided that all loading and unloading is done entirely
on private property and that no part of a vehicle or equipment extends
into a street while loading or unloading;

​(10) Wholesale building materials, supplies and installation
contractors, with storage yards for lumber, bricks, cement blocks,
construction equipment, plumbing and electrical supplies;

​(11) Full-service laundry and/or dry cleaning establishments;

​(12) Blueprinting, printing, duplicating or engraving services;

​(13) Printing, lithography, bookbinding or publishing plants;

​(14) Furniture and appliance repairs;

​(15) Limited retail sales.

For any manufacturing plant or warehouse permitted in the M-1 District,
retail sales may be permitted from the main building, provided that the
products sold are either manufactured on the site, sold as parts or
accessories to products manufactured on the site, or stored or
distributed by the owner or lessee on the site or elsewhere, and
provided, further, that not more than thirty percent of the floor space
of the first floor of the main building may be devoted to the retail
sales of articles made, stored or distributed on the premises and that
any service facility is limited to the repair and/or service of products
manufactured, stored or distributed by the owner or lessee of the site.

Nothing herein contained shall be construed to permit the operation of a
general retail sales business.

​(16) Mobile home and prefabricated home sales and rental, but not
including occupancy;

​(17) Motor vehicle and construction equipment or farm equipment sales,
repair and services, provided that vehicles shall not be dismantled or
wrecked on the premises;

​(18) Nonprofit clubs, lodges and community halls;

​(19) Parks, playgrounds, tennis courts, basketball courts and similar
recreation facilities;

​(20) Research laboratories;

​(21) Taxidermy;

​(22) Bowling alleys, tennis barns and clubs, roller skating and ice
skating rinks, commercial gymnasiums, dance halls, athletic centers,
indoor swimming, miniature golf and similar uses; and

​(23) Building cleaning, painting, roofing, exterminating and similar
establishments.

​(g) Uses Accessory to Light Manufacturing Uses. The following accessory
uses are permitted:

​(1) Private greenhouses, barns, silos and other uses customarily
accessory to a permitted use;

​(2) Personal service establishments such as barber shops, beauty shops,
opticians, photographers, tailors and day care centers; and

​(3) Private recreational facilities such as swimming pools, basketball
courts and tennis courts reserved for the use of on-site residents,
their guests and employees.

​(h) Bulk Regulations for Light Manufacturing Uses. Building heights
shall not exceed the following:

Principal structure: 45 ft.

Accessory structure: 20 ft.

​(i) Minimum Requirements for Light Manufacturing Uses. Building or use
setback is as follows:

​(1) From any public right of way - as determined by the Planning
Commission through the site plan review procedure.

​(2) From any Residential District, other than public right of way - as
determined by the Commission through the site plan review procedure.

​(3) Open space, including landscaped areas - twenty percent.

(Ord. 878. Passed 3-20-80.)
