---
layout: default 
title: 1264.16 O-R OFFICE-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Purpose. The purpose of the Office-Residential District is to
provide areas in which a mixture of residential uses, and small-scale
professional offices may be situated. It is intended that this district
be used to act as a transition between established residential
neighborhoods and non-residential areas. It is also intended that the
appearance of such areas be residential in nature in terms of building
scale and the conduct of permitted uses does not generate or create
traffic or noise detrimental to the adjoining neighborhoods.

​(b) Permitted Uses. The following are uses permitted within the O-R
Office- Residential District:

​(1) Artist studios;

​(2) Home occupations;

​(3) Professional services;

​(4) Medical and dental services.

​(5) Single-family residences;

​(6) Schools;

​(7) Parks, playgrounds, and community centers;

​(8) Churches and other religions institutions;

​(9) Greenhouses, garden centers, and plant nurseries;

​(10) Agriculture and horticulture; and

​(11) Accessory uses typically incidental to these uses.

(Ord. 99-18. Passed 5-6-99.)

​(12) Civic clubs and organizations.

(Ord. 01-5. Passed 1-18-01.)

​(13) Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics, excluding kennels as
defined in Section [1260.05](4c942bd2.html), Definitions. (Ord. 03-5.
Passed 1-16-03.)

​(c) Lot and Building Development Standards. The following standards
shall apply to development within the O-R Office-Residential District:

​(1) Building height. Buildings shall have a maximum height of
thirty-five feet (35') or two and one-half (2.5) stories.

​(2) Building proportions.

A. Non-residential structures shall front onto a collector or arterial
road as indicated on the Thoroughfare Plan for the City of Springboro
(Chapter [1226](477ad6ae.html) of Zoning Ordinance).

B. No alteration of a principal residential structure shall be made that
changes the residential scale of the dwelling.

​(3) Minimum lot size. Development sites within the O-R
Office-Residential District must be on a minimum lot area of one-half
(.5) acres (20,000 square feet).

​(4) Yard requirements. The following are yard requirements for O-R
Office-Residential District developments:

Lot Frontage - 100 feet

Front Yard - 40 feet

Side Yard - 10 feet, both sides

Rear Yard - 40 feet

​(d) Development Standards.

​(1) Landscaping. All development within the O-R Office-Residential
District shall conform to landscape development standards contained
within this Zoning Ordinance and the Tree Preservation Authority
Ordinance [(280](190dab57.html) of the City Code).

​(2) Parking. All parking within an O-R Office-Residential District
development shall conform to parking standards within
Section[1270.06](50e9959d.html) of this Zoning Ordinance.

​(3) Signage. All signage treatment within an O-R Office-Residential
District development shall conform to signage standards contained within
the Sign Code of the City of Springboro (Chapter [826](39f755a4.html) of
Codified Ordinances).

​(4) Lighting. Development within O-R Office-Residential District shall
conform to the lighting standards of the City of Springboro.

(Ord. 99-18. Passed 5-6-99.)
