---
layout: default 
title: "1264.17 O-l OFFICE DISTRICT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Purpose. The Office District has been established to provide an
area for clean, inoffensive office and professional buildings.

​(b) Permitted Uses. The following are uses permitted within the O- l
Office District:

​(1) Artist studios;

​(2) Medical and dental offices;

​(3) Medical research labs;

​(4) Medical clinics;

​(5) Professional offices as defined in Chapter [1260](4c764b58.html)
(General Provisions and Definitions) of this Zoning Ordinance, including
specifically the following:

A. Accounting offices;

B. Advertising and audio/visual communications;

C. Civic/social/fraternal association offices;

D. Commodities and security brokers;

E. Computer services;

F. Conference service centers;

G. Insurance, including drive-in claims, corporate and regional offices;

H. Security services;

I. Employment, professional, and legal services;

J. Labor unions; (Ord. 99-18. Passed 5-6-99.)

K. Banks, financial/investment services; and

(Ord. 03-50. Passed 9-18-03.)

​(6) Accessory uses typically incidental to these uses.

(Ord. 99-18. Passed 5-6-99.)

​(7) Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics, excluding kennels as
defined in Section [1260.05](4c942bd2.html), Definitions. (Ord. 03-5.
Passed 1-16-03.)

​(c) Lot and Building Development Standards. The following standards
shall apply to development within the O-1 Office District:

​(1) Building height. Buildings shall not exceed thirty-five feet (35')
or two and one-half (2 1/2) stories. (Ord. 04-27. Passed 7-15-04.)

​(2) Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size for developments within the
O-l Office District is one (1) acre.

​(3) Yard requirements. The following are yard requirements for O-l
Office District developments:

Lot Frontage - 200 feet

Front Yard - 40 feet

Side Yard - 40 feet, both sides, except when a O-l district is adjacent
to a residential district or use, the side yard requirement shall be two
(2) times the building height. In no case shall the side yard be less
than 40 feet.

Rear Yard - 40 feet, except when a O-1 district is adjacent to a
residential district or use, the rear yard requirement shall be two (2)
times the building height. In no case shall the rear yard be less than
40 feet.

​(d) Development Standards.

​(1) Landscape. All development within the O-l Office District shall
conform to landscape development standards contained within this Zoning
Ordinance and the Tree Preservation Authority Ordinance
[(280](190dab57.html) of the City Code).

​(2) Parking. All parking within an O-1 Office District development
shall conform to parking standards within Section
[1270.06](50e9959d.html) of this Zoning Ordinance.

​(3) Signage. All signage treatment within an O-1 Office District
development shall conform to signage standards contained within the Sign
Code of the City of Springboro (Chapter [826](39f755a4.html) of Codified
Ordinances).

​(4) Lighting. Development within O-l Office District shall conform to
the lighting standards of the City of Springboro.

(Ord. 99-18. Passed 5-6-99.)
