---
layout: default 
title: "1264&#46;18 O-2 OFFICE PARK DISTRICT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Purpose. The purpose of the Office Park District is to provide
large parcels for the development of professional and administrative
offices and research labs under unified control. The office parks will
contain deep yards, off-street parking with interconnected private roads
and drives and direct access to major thoroughfares. The sale of
merchandise shall not be permitted,

but limited amount of office-related retail activity is allowed.

​(b) Permitted Uses. The following are uses permitted within the O-2
Office Park District:

​(1) Medical and dental offices;

​(2) Medical research labs;

​(3) Medical clinics;

​(4) Professional offices as defined in Chapter [1260](4c764b58.html)
(General Provisions and Definitions) of this Zoning Ordinance, including
specifically the following:

A. Accounting offices;

B. Advertising and audio/visual communications;

C. Civic/social/fraternal association offices;

D. Commodity and security brokers;

E. Computer services;

F. Conference service centers;

G. Insurance, including drive-in claims, corporate, and regional
offices;

H. Security services;

I. Employment, professional, and legal services;

J. Labor unions;

K. Financial/investment services.

​(5) Office-related retail uses limited to twenty (20) percent of the
floor area of an individual building or ten (10) percent of the overall
development; and

​(6) Accessory uses typically incidental to office development.

(Ord. 99-18. Passed 5-6-99.)

​(7) Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics, excluding kennels as
defined in Section [1260.05](4c942bd2.html), Definitions. (Ord. 03-5.
Passed 1-16-03.)

​(c) Lot and Building Development Standards. The following standards
shall apply to development within the O-2 Office Park District:

​(1) Building height.

A. Building heights shall be a maximum of thirty-five feet (35') or two
and one-half (2-1/2) stories.

B. Based on a site plan review by the Planning Commission, the maximum
building height may be increased to a maximum of sixty feet (60') or
five (5) stories.

​(2) Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size for developments in the O-2
Office Park District is five (5) acres, and multiple principal buildings
shall be permitted on the lots.

​(3) Yard requirements. The following are yard requirements for O-2
Office Park District developments:

Lot Frontage - 200 feet

Front Yard - 40 feet

Side Yard - 40 feet, both sides, except when a O-2 district is adjacent
to a residential district or use. the side yard requirement shall be two
(2) times the building height. In no case shall the side yard be less
than 40 feet.

Rear Yard - 40 feet, except when a O-2 district is adjacent to a
residential district or use, the rear yard requirement shall be two (2)
times the building height. In no case shall the rear yard be less than
40 feet.

​(d) Development Standards.

​(1) Landscape. All development within the O-2 Office Park District
shall conform to landscape development standards contained within this
Zoning Ordinance and the Tree Preservation Authority Ordinance (Chapter
[280](190dab57.html) of the City Code).

​(2) Parking. All parking within an O-2 Office Park District development
shall conform to parking standards within Section
[1270.06](50e9959d.html)of this Zoning Ordinance.

​(3) Signage. All signage treatment within an O-2 Office Park District
development shall conform to signage standards contained within the Sign
Code of the City of Springboro (Chapter [826](39f755a4.html) of Codified
Ordinances).

​(4) Lighting. Development within O-2 Office Park District shall conform
to the lighting standards of the City of Springboro.

(Ord. 99-18. Passed 5-6-99.)
