---
layout: default
title: "1264&#46;20 ADD-1, AUSTIN DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT 1."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Purpose. The ADD-1, Austin Development District 1, is designed to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the community and the orderly growth of the Austin Center area; to achieve the goals and objectives of the *Austin Center Land Use and Development Plan*; to establish basic standards for structures, landscaping and other improvements on the properties within the zoning amendment which promote high quality, innovative, and unified site design unique to Austin Center. This district further seeks to guide individual development in a cohesive manner that creates a unique and identifiable image to increase property values, protect real estate investment, spur commercial activity and attract new businesses opportunities.

(b) Minimum Requirements. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of the ADD-1, Austin Development District 1, shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, and the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this Chapter conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules or regulations, the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.

(c)  Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the ADD-1, Austin Development District 1:

(1) Industrial and Research and Development.

  A. Industrial or scientific research, design, and testing centers, together with related research and engineering laboratories and office buildings to accommodate executive, administrative, professional, accounting, engineering, architectural, and support personnel;

  B. Manufacturing that uses advanced or leading technology in the manufacturing process excluding the uses prohibited under Section 1264.20(e);

  C. Food research, pharmaceutical research, and similar operations including pilot or experimental product development;

  D. Telecommunications companies engaged in electronic transfer, routing, and processing of information;

  E. The manufacture or assembly of general, precision, medical, dental, and optical instruments and goods; plastic, metal, and rubber products; and tools, hardware, and cutlery;

  F. The manufacturing, compounding, assembling, or treatment of articles or goods from the previously prepared materials: bone, cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass hair, horn, leather, paper, precious or semi-precious metals or stones, shell, textiles, tobacco, yarns, wax, wire, and wood;

  G. The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, treatment, or fabrication of such products as: bakery goods, candy, and food products; ceramics and pottery; cosmetics and dies; and clothing, jewelry, and apparel accessories;

  H. The manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, electrical and electronic equipment, electronic instruments or precision devices, including the manufacture of parts for such devices;

  I. Printing, lithography, blueprinting, and similar uses; and

  J. Data processing and computer centers, including electronic data processing and computer equipment service establishments.

(2) Office Uses.

  A. Office buildings for any of the following occupations: administrative services, accounting, clerical, drafting, education, executive, insurance, professional, real estate, research, sales agent, stock broker, technical training, stenographic, or writing;

  B. General office buildings and uses, provided that goods are not manufactured, exchanged, or sold on the premises;

  C. Medical and dental clinics or offices;

  D. Hospitals;

  E. Veterinary Hospitals;

  F. Business schools and colleges, or vocational training schools, dance schools, music and voice schools, and art studios;

  G. Electronic data processing and computer centers; and

  H. Photographic studios.

(d) Special District Uses. The following uses may be permitted by the Planning Commission, subject to the conditions specified for each use; review and approval of the site plan and application by the Planning Commission; the imposition of special conditions which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, are necessary to fulfill the purposes of the Austin Development District:

(1) Accessory retail and service uses that are intended to serve the employees and guests of the principal use. The accessory use shall be incidental to the principal use, located within the principal structure, and shall not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the gross floor area of the principal use. Permitted accessory retail and service uses shall be limited to the following:

  A. Convenience orientated retail uses that cater to the needs of employees and guests of the principal use such as drug stores, convenience stores, uniform supply stores, or similar retail business as determined by the Planning Commission;

  B. Personal service establishments such as beauty and barber shops, fitness centers, child care, dry cleaning drop-off and pick-up establishments, travel agencies, tailor shops, or similar service establishments;

  C. Dine-in restaurants without drive-through facilities; and

  D. Financial institutions, including banks, credit unions, and saving and loan associations.

(2) Ancillary business service support uses as permitted independent of a principally permitted use to provide service and amenity related uses for the businesses, employees, and guests of the office / industrial office park. Such uses shall be permitted only as determined by the Planning Commission, with the maximum area devoted to any combination of such uses not to exceed fifteen (15) percent of the gross land area of the entire Austin Development District.

  A. Financial institutions, including banks, credit unions, and saving and loan associations;

  B. Hotels, Motels, and Conference Centers;

  C. Retail establishments under 15,000 square feet such as convenience stores, drug stores, uniform supply stores, or similar retail business;

  D. Personal service establishments which are intended to serve workers or visitors in the district or nearby residents, such as beauty and barber shops, corporate fitness centers, dry cleaning establishments, travel agencies, tailor shops, or similar service establishments; and

  E. Standard restaurants without drive through facilities.

(e) Prohibited Uses. The following uses are prohibited in the ADD-1, Austin Development District 1:

(1) Building material sales, including establishments that sell hardware, glass, paint, and lumber, and which may require outdoor retail or wholesale display or sales area. Outdoor storage of materials and equipment shall be prohibited;

(2) Any retail establishment larger than fifteen thousand (15,000) square of gross floor area;

(3) The assembly or manufacture of automobiles and automobile bodies;

(4) Machine and tool and die shops; metal buffing, plating and polishing shops; metal and plastic molding and extrusion shops, millwork and planing mills; painting and sheet metal shops; undercoating and rustproofing shops; and welding shops;

(5) Warehouse, material handling, packaging and product distribution facilities;

(6) Mini-storage or self-storage facilities of any kind or size, whether for rental or sale are not permitted;

(7) Truck, tractor, and trailer sales, rental and repair;

(8) Truck terminals, truck plazas and truck stops;

(9) Food research, handling, preparation and packaging of fish, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and rendering or refining of fats and oils;

(10) Heating and electric power generating stations;

(11) Drive-in theaters;

(12) Junk, scrap, wrecking yards, or salvage yards where the operations are for the conversion of saleable materials;

(13) Petroleum refining, petroleum storage;

(14) Processing, refining, or storage of food and foodstuffs;

(15) Sewage disposal plants and landfills;

(16) Private outdoor recreation uses, such as archery ranges, baseball, football or soccer fields, bicycle motocross (BMX) tracks, court sports facilities, golf driving ranges, swimming pools, and similar outdoor recreation uses except as developed as an accessory use to an approved permitted or conditional use;

(17) Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster manufacturing;

(18) Distillation of bone, coal, tar, petroleum, refuse, grain or wood;

(19) Explosive manufacturing or storage;

(20) Fertilizer manufacturing;

(21) Compost or storage of garbage, offal, dead animals, refuse, or rancid fats;

(22) Incineration, glue manufacturing, size or gelatin manufacturing where the processes include the refining or recovery of products from animal refuse or offal;

(23) Livestock feeding yards, slaughtering of animals, or stock yards;

(24) Petroleum or asphalt refining or manufacturing;

(25) Smelting or refining of metals from ores;

(26) Steam board hammers and forging presses;

(27) Storage, curing and tanning of raw, green, or salted hides or skins;

(28) Manufacturing involving the use of sulphurous, sulphuric, nitric, picric, carbolic, hydrochloric or other corrosive acids; and

(29) Commercial television, telecommunication, radio and microwave towers.

(f) Design Standards. Design standards were established to create a unified image for Austin Center. High quality, mixed use developments in campus settings with integrated open spaces, streets, and pedestrian facilities are desired. 

(1) Summary of Site Development Standards.

  A. Utilize durable, long lasting building materials such as brick, stone and decorative masonry block on all building walls facing I-75, Miamisburg Springboro Pike, and SR 741.

  B. Develop unique buildings that fit into the overall character and design theme of Austin Center by requiring decorative architectural elements and varied roof lines.

  C. Place office and industrial buildings close to I-75 and all surface streets, to create a strong identifiable image unique to Austin Center with adequate room for tree preservation zones and/or landscape buffers.

  D. Place parking lots in rear or side yards to make Austin Center's structures the focal point of every development site.

  E. Preserve and integrate existing tree stands, open spaces, and scenic views on development parcels and along corridors to maintain Austin Center's natural heritage.

  F. Provide and require a non-motorized transportation system for the exclusive use of pedestrians and bicyclists that provides safe linkages between neighborhoods, businesses, recreational, and open space areas. Trails to be designed following the most current bikeway design standards adopted by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).

  G. Require consistent use of high quality, low profile monument signage along all surface streets and encourage architecturally compatible wall identification signs as required herein and pursuant to Chapter [826](39f755a4.html) Signs.

(2) Architectural Standards.

  A. Facades. Any building elevation of any structure facing I-75, Miamisburg-Springboro Pike, and SR 741 shall be considered as a front side or fa&ccedil;ade for design purposes.

  B. Appropriate Fa&ccedil;ade Building Materials. Building facades shall be constructed with decorative materials that provide long-term durability and require low maintenance, such as: brick, stone, decorative masonry, or other natural materials. Due to the nature of industrial businesses, split-face block is an acceptable building material.

  C. Unacceptable fa&ccedil;ade building materials. Building materials that are generally not acceptable as the primary material include the following:

   1. Exterior insulation finish systems (EIFS), such as Dry-vit, Sto-Wall and other brands;

   2. Imitation wood, such as T-111 and other brands;

   3. Plain concrete block and unadorned tilt up panel; and

   4. Steel siding.

  D. Glass. The use of glass is required but limited to fifty (50%) percent on facades to avoid the excessive use of this material and a dated appearance. The first floor of buildings should have a minimum of twenty-five (25%) percent glass to provide variety, interest, and openness. Glass with a reflection greater than 20 percent (20%) is prohibited.

  E. Main Building Entrances. Public entrances shall be inviting and pronounced with lighting; high quality building materials; and architectural elements that draw the eye to the opening such as decorative transoms, columns, recesses, or protrusions. Combine different colors, textures and the before mentioned architectural elements to emphasize entrances and to break the monotony of large vertical surfaces. Public entrance vistas shall be established or preserved by framing the area leading to the entrance with landscaping. It is not the intent of the landscaping or screening requirements found in this chapter to block the view of the primary building entrances. Also, entrances should be designed with attention to pedestrian use, as well as automobile drop-off convenience. 
(Ord. 07-2. Passed 1-4-07.)

  F. Architectural Details. Encourage use of recesses, off-sets, arches, colonnades, columns, pilasters, detailed trim, brick bands, and contrasting courses of material, cornices, or porches to vary building facades. Vary roof lines with cantilevers, gables, parapets, and cornice lines. Screen rooftop mechanical equipment, with the exception of roof-mounted solar energy systems as regulated in Section [1271.06](52f5c3a5.html), with roof form. 

   (Ord. 12-37. Passed 8-16-12.)

  G. Accents. Use canopies, overhangs, raised parapets over the door, archways, awnings, larger openings and display windows, accent colors, and details such as tile work, moldings, pedestrian-scale lighting, and distinctive door pulls to add detail and additional interest to building designs.

  H. Break Long, Flat Walls. Where buildings with long continuous walls are oriented to the street, use contrasting architectural features to provide visual relief and break the building mass at regular intervals no greater than one hundred (100) feet by utilizing the architectural features suggested in the above items.

(3) Yard and Bulk Requirements. It is desirable to establish setback requirements to maintain consistency in building placement along Austin Center's major thoroughfares. Building height and bulk should be the highest adjacent to the interchange and decline gradually as the distance away from the interchange increases. 

A. Uniform front yard setback. A uniform front yard setback of sixty (60) feet is required for buildings with frontage on Miamisburg-Springboro Pike and SR 741. This setback is sufficient to provide the required area for tree preservation zones or landscaped buffer yards next road rights-of-way yet does not create an excessively large setback.

  B. Other setbacks. Side and rear yard setbacks shall be the minimum required to accommodate required buffer yards pursuant to Subsection D below.

  C. Setback from Residential Districts. All industrial uses and associated parking lots and loading facilities shall be located not less than one hundred (100) feet from land zoned or used for residential purposes. All office and other nonresidential buildings and associated parking and loading facilities shall be located not less than fifty (50) feet from land zoned or used for residential purposes.

  D. Maximum Lot Coverage and Open Space. Not more than eighty- five percent (85%) of the area of any lot shall be covered with any combination of buildings, pavement, or other impervious surfaces. Detention ponds, retention ponds, or wetlands shall not account for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total required open space area.

  E. Building Height and Bulk. Building height and bulk should be the greatest adjacent to the interchange. Multi-story structures are strongly encouraged to be developed within a one thousand (1,000) foot radius from the Miamisburg-Springboro Pike bridge at I-75 to create a pronounced gateway at the future Austin Center Interchange.

(4) Landscaping Standards. Landscaping has a significant impact on the quality of the environment. In addition to visual appeal, landscaping provides an essential buffer and screen for undesirable features such as parking lots and utility structures.

  A. General Requirements. As a general guideline, a consistent landscape program is required throughout Austin Center including a mix of evergreen trees, canopy trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, and flowering ground covers to provide an inviting environment. 

  B. Landscaping Adjacent to Rights-of-Way.Landscape buffer yards shall be provided adjacent to the Miamisburg Springboro Pike, SR 741 and I-75 rights-of-way planted with mixture of shade trees, ornamental trees, bushes and ground cover as required in the below table. A minimum screen height is established to screen parking lots and industrial uses from rights-of-way. Earth mounds, decorative walls, and dense vegetation can be used in any combination to provide the required screening. 

**Use**

**Minimum Buffer Width**

**Minimum Screen Height**

**Minimum Plant Materials**

Office, Business

35 feet

30 inches

One (1) deciduous tree and 4 shrubs for every twenty (20) lineal feet 

Light Industrial

35 feet

4 ft

One (1) deciduous tree and two (2) shrubs for every fifteen (15) lineal feet 

  C. Landscape buffers between properties. The intent of buffer yards is to reserve an appropriate area to screen: (1) different uses of land; (2) screen parking lots from adjacent property; and (3) enhance the long term attractiveness and vitality of Austin Center as an attractive employment center through the judicious use of landscape materials such as trees, bushes and shrubs in combination with earth mounds, desirable fences, and decorative masonry walls. Buffer yards with required landscaping and screening materials shall be provided adjacent to perimeter boundaries and between individual lots as specified in the following tables:

**PROPOSED USE**

**ADJACENT TO**

**Single or Two- Family Residential**

**Office Use/District**

**General Business Use/District**

**Industrial Use/District**

Business

C

A

A

B

Office

C

A

A

B

Industrial

D

B

B

A

**BUFFER ZONE**

**Minimum Buffer Width**

**Minimum Screen Height**

**Minimum Plant Materials**

A

10 Feet

One (1) deciduous or evergreen tree per every forty (40) lineal feet.

B

20 Feet

3 feet

One (1) tree per twenty-five (25) lineal feet with a minimum of 40% evergreen trees.

C

30 Feet

4 feet

One (1) tree per twenty (20) lineal feet with a minimum of 50% evergreen trees.

D

40 Feet

5 feet

One (1) tree per fifteen (15) lineal feet with a minimum of 70% evergreen trees.

* No minimum screen height is required unless the Planning Commission finds that screening is needed between similar uses that have varying degrees of density or land use intensity. 

  D. Foundation Plantings. Buildings constructed at Austin Center shall include foundation plantings around all elevations visible from the public right-of-way. One (1) tree shall be planted around the building and in the adjacent yards for every fifteen hundred (1,500) square feet of gross floor area for the first twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of building area plus one additional tree shall be required for every three thousand (3,000) square feet of building floor area thereafter. This requirement may be waived in part or in whole when substantial wood stands are preserved on the development site.

  E. Parking Lot Interior. Curbed (ODOT Barrier Curb Type 6) landscape islands internal to parking lots are required to separate parking aisles, direct traffic, and break large expanses of asphalt. Each island shall contain shade trees, shrubs, ground cover and/or mulch. Ideally, a continuous landscape island should be provided between every third parking aisle or, alternatively, at the ends of each parking aisle and between every twelve (12) parking spaces. Islands should be large enough to protect vegetation from vehicular encroachment and to store snow in the winter.

  F. Treatment of Existing Vegetation. Existing site topography and areas with substantial plant material, such as mature tree stands within required buffer yards, setbacks and required open space shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible and integrated into the overall site design to preserve Austin Center's natural character and sense of place. Where healthy trees of native species are preserved in areas other than required buffer yards and setbacks, the Planning Commission may grant a reduction in the total number of new trees required as indicated in the following table. Pursuant to Chapter 280 Tree Authority, any party wishing to remove a tree shall first submit a permit to the City of Springboro. Any protected tree that is removed must be replaced complaint with Section 280.04, Specific Removal Controls And Replacement Requirements, of the Codified Ordinances.

Trunk diameter of Single Tree measured at DBH

Reduction in Number of New Trees Required

4 -6 inches

1 tree

6- 14 inches

2 trees

14-20 inches

3 trees

20+ inches

4 trees

  G. Modifications. The Planning Commission may grant modifications to any buffer yard and general landscaping requirement where existing or proposed vegetation meets the intent of these regulations, or when, because of the unique shape, location, or character of the property, alternative landscaping requirements would produce a more appealing landscape design. However, the Planning Commission may require additional tree plantings or other landscape elements where existing or proposed vegetation is sparse and/or the intent of these regulations are not met. Existing plant material used in lieu of the above buffer yard and general landscaping requirements shall be protected by perpetual conservation easement.

  H. Planting Standards. The following guidelines shall be followed: 

   1. The plant palette should emphasize native trees, shrubs, ground cover which is hardy to this region consistent with the Preferred Plant List Schedule.

   2. Deciduous trees shall have a DBH (diameter at breast height) of at least two and one-half (2.5) inches; Ornamental trees shall have DBH of at least one and one-half (1.5) inches and evergreen trees shall be at least six (6) feet high at the time of planting. Deciduous and evergreen shrubs shall be a minimum of eighteen (18) inches high at the time of planting with no fewer than six (6) main branches.

   3. Plants shall be salt-spray tolerant, compatible with existing soil conditions and tolerant of a wide range of conditions.

   4. Creativity in landscape design is encouraged. The planting design shall use massing or groupings of materials to create a stronger visual impact for high speed areas, use plant diversity for long term health of the plants, use repetition for continuity and create visual interest by incorporating spring and summer flowers and fall color. The design shall incorporate the Planning Commission's desired visual effect and, equally important, the intent of the City to coordinate landscaping on adjoining properties. 

   5. New landscaping should be naturalistic looking by being sensitive to Austin Center's existing natural features. New landscaping should blend with existing vegetation and topography. Earth mounds should undulate horizontally and vertically to remove monotony from the landscape and to look as naturalistic as possible.

   6. Plants shall not be located where they might interfere with overhead utilities or block visibility for pedestrians and motorists.

   7. Landscape areas must be routinely maintained; dead and diseased plant material shall be replaced; and irrigation to landscape areas is strongly recommended.

(5) Screening Standards. Proper placement of utilitarian features enhances the effectiveness of screening. Mechanical equipment, trash receptacles, and loading areas shall be located to the rear of the site and should not be visible from any public right-of-way. 

  A. Mechanical equipment such as transformers and HVAC shall not be located in front yards. All mechanical equipment, including both ground-mounted and roof-mounted equipment, shall be screened from view from adjacent public and private rights-of-way, as well as from all property zoned or used for residential purposes, through the use of evergreen plantings or enclosures.

  B. Trash receptacles shall be located in side or rear yards and screened on three (3) sides with durable building materials consistent in appearance and materials with that of the principal building. The fourth side shall be screened with an opaque gate with a lockable latch assembly. Bollards shall be provided to protect adjacent vehicles from gate over-swing.

(6) Signs. Consistent business signage is necessary for ease of way finding and visual continuity. Low profile monument signs, rather than pole or pylon signs, shall be used throughout Austin Center. Such signs should be integrated into the overall site design, consistent in architectural style with the building it advertises. Chapter [826](39f755a4.html), Signs, of the Codified Ordinances shall control the specific sign requirements with following additional provisions: 

  A. Prohibited Signs. Roofs signs, pole signs, pylon signs, and billboards and highway signs are prohibited.

  B. Ground Sign Requirements. Ground signs shall be monument signs such as no support structures are visible. The sign base shall be constructed of the same materials as the building, and the sign style shall be consistent with the architecture of the building it advertises. Landscaping consisting of shrubs, flowers, and accent stones shall be provided around the base of all monument signs. Ground lighting should be flush with the grade or obscured by landscaping. Internally illuminated ground signs are discouraged.

  C. Signature wall sign. One signature wall sign is permitted at the top of the building wall that faces I-75, provided that such sign does not extend beyond the roof line or exceed one (1) square feet in area for one foot of building frontage not to exceed one-hundred fifty (150) square feet in area. 

(7) Parking and Loading.

  A. Prohibited Parking Lot Locations. Parking lots are prohibited between the principal structure on each lot and Interstate 75, Miamisburg Springboro Pike, or SR 741. This parking lot restriction shall apply only to the frontage that contains the most traffic in cases where a lot has multiple frontages.

  B. Parking Lot Location Restrictions. Not more than two rows of parking shall be placed in any front yard. Parking lots located in front and side yards shall be screened in accordance with subsection (4) above.

  C. Entrances. Parking lot entrances and exits shall be designed to enhance the flow of traffic into or out of the parking lot, thereby reducing congestion and traffic hazards. There shall be sufficient maneuvering room for vehicles to enter and leave the lot.

  D. Pedestrian Circulation. A safe transition shall be provided for people walking from their vehicles to the building, or for pedestrians or bicyclists using a public pathway to the building entrance. The design of the parking lot should minimize areas where vehicular traffic moves in the same space with pedestrians. Walkways shall be curbed and elevated higher than parking lots to place pedestrians at a higher level than vehicular traffic.

  E. Loading Bays. Loading bays shall not face I-75, Miamisburg Springboro Pike, and SR 741 or be visible from any other right-of- way or residential district. Loading areas shall be screened from view from local streets and residential districts by an opaque barrier consisting of a decorative screen wall consistent in appearance and materials with that of the principal building, continuous evergreen planting, or some combination thereof.

  F. Bicycle Parking. Multi-use paths are planned throughout Austin Center. Bicycle parking should be provided next to building entrances or at safe and convenient locations within parking lots. Permanently fixed bicycle parking racks should be provided near building entrances following guidelines established by the Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals (APBP).

(8) Pedestrian Amenities/Circulation. Bike paths or sidewalks should extend into each site development from the existing or planned Austin Center bike path and sidewalk system. The intent is to offer a range of non-motorized commuting and recreational options for employees, residents and visitors of the area. The Planning Commission may reduce the number of parking space required for the provision of bicycle parking facilities and a well- designed non-motorized circulation system. 

  A. Link buildings and main entrances to the public sidewalk system and multi-use paths.

  B. Connect office and industrial buildings to nearby common areas, open spaces, and retail areas.

  C. Establish pedestrian connections between employment centers and adjacent neighborhoods.

  D. Incorporate plazas, courtyards, and arcades into developments with a variety of furniture, fountains, landscaping, decorative lighting, art, and clock towers, etc., to promote activity during breaks. Such spaces should be linked to building entrances, parking lots, and the public sidewalk/path system. Such areas can be constructed on individual lots or in common areas. Plazas and courtyards that serve more than one building are encouraged to promote increased use, activity and a welcoming community environment.

(9) Storm Drainage.

  A. "Wet" retention ponds should be encouraged as community site amenities. Such ponds shall be designed with a gradual slope (6:1) and naturalistic shape. A gradual slope promotes greater environmental value and eliminates the need for unattractive fencing. The edge of ponds should be lined with stone to minimize erosion caused by wind rippling. "Dry" detention areas, where required, should be located on the site to reduce their visibility and/or obscured with landscaping.

  B. Common drainage facilities should be encouraged whenever possible to avoid multiple, small facilities that are unattractive and that result in long-tem maintenance problems. The location and common drainage features should be identified early in the development stage of large sites so that sufficient area is reserved in advance of development.

  C. Common drainage facilities will necessitate the submission of common maintenance agreements to provide for equitable contributions by each separate landowner using the facility. Such agreements should be required and reviewed during the site plan review process to ensure that maintenance responsibilities are properly defined and that common area fees are sufficient.

(10) Site Lighting. The provision of sufficient lighting is an important design feature that affects the overall appearance of a site during the day and provides significant impact on the safety of property at night. Site lighting shall conform to the requirements found in Chapter Section [1271.02](524a02d4.html), Exterior Lighting.

Preferred Plant List

Plant Type

Common NameBotanical Name

Shade Tree

Red Maple

Sugar Maple

‘Heritage' River Birch

European Hornbeam

Yellowwood

Madenhair Tree

Thornless Honeylocust

Kentucky Coffeetree

Tuliptree

Sweetgum

Ironwood

Bur Oak

English Oak

Shingle Oak

Chinkapin Oak

Red Oak

Littleleaf Linden

American Linden

Acer rubrum

Acer saccharum

(Betula nigra "Heritage"

Carpinus betulus

Cladatris kentuckea

Ginkgo biloba (male only)

Gleditsia triacanthos inermis

Gymnacladus dioicus

Liriodendron tulipfera

Liquidambar styraciflua

Ostrya virginiana

Quercus macrocarpa

Quercus robur

Quercus imbricaria

Quercus meuhlenbergii

Quercus rubra

Tilia cordata

Tilia americana

Small Tree

Hedge Maple

Amur maple

Paperbark Maple

Ironwood/American

Hophornbeam

Sourwood

Persian Parrotia

Acer campestre

Acer ginnala

Acer griseum

Ostrya virginiana

Oxydendron arboreum

Parrotia persica

Evergreen Trees

White Fir

Norway Spruce

Serbian Spruce

Canadian Hemlock

Abies concolor

Picea abies

Picea omorika

Tsuga canadensis

Native or Preservation Trees

Shagbark Hickory

Hackberry

White Ash

Kentucky Coffeetree

Walnut

American Hophornbeam

Oaks

Bald Cypress

American Linden

Carya ovata

Celtis occidentalis

Fraxinus americana

Gymnocladus dioicus

Juglans nigra

Ostrya virginiana

Quercus

Taxodium distichum

Tilia Americana

**Plant Type**

**Common Name**

**Botanical Name**

Flowering/Ornamental Trees

‘Autumn Brilliance' Serviceberry

Red Bud

Kousa Dogwood

Winter King Hawthorne

Sweetbay Magnolia

‘Sugar Tyme' Crabapple

‘Prairiefire' Crabapple

‘Bob White' Crabapple

Sargeant Crabapple
‘Chancellor' Callery Pear

Japanese Lilac Tree ‘Ivory Silk'Amelanchier x grandiflora

Cercis canadensis

Cornus kousa

Crataegus viridus

Magnolia virginiana

Malus ‘Sugartyme'

Malus ‘Prairiefire'

Malus "Bob White'

Malus sargentii

Pyrus calleryana ‘Chancellor'

Syringa reticulata ‘Ivory Silk"

Unnacceptable Trees

Box Elder

Silver Maple

Tree-of-Heaven

Russian Olive

Female Ginkgo

Osage Orange, Hedge Apple

Cottonwood, Aspen

Elms (other than approved hybrids)Acer negundo

Acer saccharinum

Ailanthus altisimma

Elaeagnus angustifolia

Ginkgo biloba (female)

Maclura pomifera

Populus spp.

Ulmus

Large Shrubs

Doublefile Viburnum

Burkwood Viburnum

Mohican Viburnum

Viburnum plicatum tomentosum

Viburnum x burkwoodii

Viburnum lantana ‘Mohican'

Medium Shrubs

Red Chokeberry

Spreading Cotoneaster

Rockspray Cotoneaster

Oakleaf Hydrangea

Northern bayberry

Meyer Lilac

American Cranberrybush

Viburnum

Aronia arbutifolia ‘Brilliantissima'

Cotoneaster divaricatus

Cotoneaster horizontalis

Hydrangea quercifolia

Myrica pennyslvanica

Syringa meyeri

Viburnum trilobum

Small Shrubs

Wintergreen' Boxwood

Cranberry Cotoneaster

Anthony Waterer Spirea

Buxus microphylia ‘Wintergreen'

Cotoneaster apiculata

Spirea x burnalda ‘'Anthony'
‘Waterer'

(Ord. 07-2. Passed 1-4-07.)