---
layout: default 
title: "1266&#46;06 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
zoning districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following
rules shall apply:

​(a) Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or highway
right-of-way lines, such center lines, street lines or highway
right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.

​(b) Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such
boundaries.

​(c) Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines or street lines of streets, or
the centerlines or right-of-way lines of highways, such district
boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such
distance therefrom as indicated on the Map. If no distance is given,
such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the
Map.

​(d) Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located in the middle of the main tracks
of such railroad line.

​(e) Where the boundary of a district follows a stream, lake or other
body of water, such boundary line shall be deemed to be at the limit of
the jurisdiction of the Municipality, unless otherwise indicated.

​(f) Where the location of the boundary of district cannot reasonably be
determined by application of the above methods, the City Council shall
have authority to make the determination after recommendation by the
Planning Commission, notice to property owners and a hearing, all as in
a rezoning.

(Ord. 01-13. Passed 3-15-01.)
