---
layout: default 
title: 1268.01 INTERPRETATION; CONFORMITY REQUIRED; ANNEXED TERRITORY.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The regulations set forth in this Zoning Code for each district shall be
deemed minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or
kind of structure or land, except as hereinafter provided:

​(a) No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in
conformity with all of the regulations specified in this Zoning Code for
the district in which it is located.

​(b) No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or
altered to exceed the height or bulk, accommodate or house a greater
number of families, occupy a greater percentage of lot area or have
narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or other open
spaces, than required, or in any other manner contrary to the provisions
of this Zoning Code.

​(c) No yard or lot existing at the time of the passage of this Zoning
Code (Ordinance 546B, passed February 25, 1976) shall be reduced in
dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth in this
Zoning Code. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this
Zoning Code (Ordinance 546B, passed February 25, 1976) shall meet at
least the minimum requirements established by this Zoning Code.

​(d) All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the Municipality
shall be administered in accordance with the applicable township or
county zoning district regulations until otherwise classified. Annexed
territory without township or county zoning shall be considered to be in
the R-1 District until otherwise classified.

(Ord. 546B. Passed 2-25-76.)
