---
layout: default 
title: 1270.47 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Notwithstanding other provisions of this Zoning Code, fences, walls and
hedges may be permitted in any yard, or along the edge of any yard,
provided that no fence, wall or hedge along the sides or front edge of
any front yard shall be over two and one-half feet in height.

​(a) Front Yard. The use of split rail, wrought iron, picket or other
similar decorative fences not exceeding a maximum height of thirty-six
inches or impeding the vision into the flow of traffic may be permitted
upon approval of the Planning Commission.

​(b) Rear and Side Yard. The maximum height of a fence shall be six feet
six inches. A chain link fence may not encroach into the front yard.

​(c) All fencing installed shall require a site plan showing property
lines and the location of the fence shall be provided before a zoning
permit is issued.

​(d) Prior to commencing construction, a fence zoning permit shall be
obtained for a fee as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter
[1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Codified Ordinances.

​(e) The fence requirements for Olde Springboro Architectural District
shall be as follows:

​(1) Types of fence. Wrought iron, picket or other decorative fence as
approved by the Planning Commission. All fences in the Olde Springboro
Architectural District shall be of a type in harmony with the
architecture of the area.

​(2) Location. The types of fences allowed by subsection (e)(1) hereof
shall be located in the front or rear yard, but shall not encroach any
public right of way and shall comply with subsection (c) hereof.

​(3) Height. Front yard shall be thirty-six inch maximum. Rear yard
shall be forty-two inch maximum. The exception for swimming pools shall
be sixty inches minimum.

​(4) A drawing to scale showing style, color, size and material type
shall be submitted for review along with a site plan.

(Ord. 03-42. Passed 8-21-03.)
