---
layout: default 
title: 1270.53 BED-AND-BREAKFASTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

A Bed-and-Breakfast is a home occupation allowed in all zoning
districts. Persons wishing to operate a Bed-and-Breakfast shall first
obtain a municipal zoning certificate and occupancy permit.
Bed-and-Breakfasts shall conform to the following limitations,
restrictions and regulations to qualify for and maintain a zoning
certificate and occupancy permit:

​(1) Bed-and-Breakfasts shall be permitted only in owner-occupied
residences which are located within the Old Springboro Historic
Preservation District, or which are listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, or which have been officially designated as a Landmark
by action of the City Council of Springboro pursuant to Chapter
[1229](47ba3598.html).

​(2) Bed-and-Breakfasts may offer no more than four (4) sleeping rooms.

​(3) No more than four (4) persons may occupy a sleeping room, and no
more than two (2) of these may be adults.

​(4) Buildings and premises which include a Bed-and-Breakfast shall
consistently maintain compliance with all building, fire, electrical,
sanitation and other applicable health and safety codes.

​(5) A minimum of one (1) 10' x 20' off-street parking space, paved with
concrete or asphalt, shall be provided for each sleeping room available
for rent. Such spaces shall be in addition to two (2) off-street spaces
to be reserved for the owner of the premises, which may be within a
garage or carport. No more than two (2) vehicles may be stacked to meet
these off-street parking requirements, regardless of whether the spaces
are indoors or outdoors. Parking facilities for guests may not be
located in the front yard of the premises.

​(6) Off-street parking facilities which permit parking of more than
four (4) vehicles outdoors shall be screened from abutting residential
land uses by a dense evergreen hedge, fence, mound, or combination
thereof, at least four (4) feet in height measured from the level of the
nearest edge of the parking surface. Plans for new parking facilities
and/or required screening shall be approved by the Architectural Review
Board pursuant to Section [1229.07](487ad9a5.html), as a change to a
protected property.

​(7) No Bed-and-Breakfast shall rent to the same guest for more than
fourteen (14) days in any thirty (30) day period.

​(8) The establishment and operation of a Bed-and-Breakfast shall not
result in any change in the exterior appearance of the building or
premises, except for the addition of 1) parking facilities, 2)
screening, and 3) signs complying with Chapter 826, the City Sign Code.

​(9) The City zoning inspector and other code enforcement officials
having jurisdiction shall be permitted to enter and inspect the premises
at all reasonable times to assure compliance with this section.

(Ord. 01-37. Passed 9-6-01.)
