---
layout: default
title: "1271&#46;02  EXTERIOR LIGHTING."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Purpose and Background. It is the intent of this section to regulate outdoor lighting in a manner that establishes appropriate minimum levels of illumination, prevents unnecessary glare, reduces light trespass onto adjacent properties and reduces unnecessary transmission of light into the night sky. These provisions are not intended to eliminate the need for an applicant to seek out professional assistance to determine appropriate lighting for the use and design proposed.

(b) Approved Site Plan Required. Whenever the installation or modification of outdoor lighting is part of a development that requires site plan approval, the Planning Commission shall review and approve all proposed lighting as part of its site plan approval process.

(1) Lighting plan contents. A lighting plan submitted for review shall contain the following:

  A. A site plan showing the location of all existing and proposed buildings, zoning, landscaping, streets, drives, parking areas and exterior lighting fixtures.

  B. Specifications for all proposed and existing lighting fixtures including photometric data, fixture height, mounting and design, glare control devices, type and color rendition of lamps, and hours of operation. A photometric plan illustrating the levels of illumination at ground level shall account for all light sources that impact the subject site, including light trespass from and to neighboring properties. This information may be deferred to the final site plan if the site is not adjacent to a residential district.

  C. Relevant building elevation drawing showing all fixtures, the portions of the walls to be illuminated, luminance levels of walls and the aiming points of any remote fixtures.

  D. A photometric analysis of the proposed lighting plan using standards established by the Engineering Department.

  E. Other information necessary to meet this ordinance's requirements as determined by the Planning Commission or the Director of Planning.

(2) Lighting plan approval criterion. A proposed lighting plan shall be reviewed based upon the following considerations:

  A. Whether the lighting is designed to minimize glare;

  B. Whether the light will be directed beyond the boundaries of the area to be illuminated or onto adjacent properties or streets;

  C. Whether the lighting will cause negative impacts on residential districts and uses;

  D. Whether the plan will achieve appropriate levels of illumination for the use proposed;

  E. Whether the lighting is in harmony with the character of the surrounding area and the illumination levels of neighboring properties; and

  F. Whether the lighting is in keeping with the City's goal of prohibiting unnecessary illumination of the night sky.

(3) Design standards. When site plan approval is required for the installation or modification of exterior lighting, the following conditions shall apply:

  A. Light fixtures shall not be mounted in excess of the maximum height limitation of the district in which they are located. For lighting in residential districts and for uses adjacent to residential district or uses, light fixtures shall not be mounted in excess of twenty-five (25) feet above the grade. Fixture height shall be measured from the grade of the illuminated surface to the bottom of the fixture.

  B. Electrical service to the light fixtures shall be placed underground.

  C. No flashing or moving lights shall be permitted.

  D. Glare control shall be accomplished primarily through the proper selection and application of lighting equipment. Only after those means have been exhausted shall landscaping, fencing and similar screening methods be considered acceptable means for reducing glare.

  E. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to achieve uniform illumination levels. The ratio of the average light level of the surface being lit to the lowest light level of the surface being lit, measured in foot- candles, shall not exceed a ratio of four to one (4:1). In no case shall the maximum to minimum light levels exceed a ratio of ten to one (10:1) between any two (2) points on a lot.

   (Ord. 05-13. Passed 5-5-05.)

  F. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to present a uniform color temperature on a site, building or development insofar as the lighting will have a color temperature of 3500 degrees Kelvin (K) or less. (Ord. 12-2. Passed 1-5-12.)

  G. Only necessary lighting for security purposes and limited operations shall be permitted after hours of operation.

  H. Lighting for security purposes shall be directed only onto the area to be secured:

   1. All fixtures shall be located, shielded and aimed so that light is not cast toward adjacent properties or streets or unnecessarily transmitted into the night sky.

   2. Fixtures mounted on the building and designed to illuminate the facade are preferred.

  I. Parking lot lighting shall be designed to provide the minimum illumination necessary to ensure adequate vision and comfort in parking areas. Fully shielded fixtures shall be used to prevent glare and direct illumination away from adjacent properties and streets. Designs that result in even levels of illumination across a parking area are preferred.

  J. The illumination of gasoline service stations, drive through operations (areas directly associated with the drive through itself, not the entire use or property) and convenience-type food stores shall not exceed ten (10) foot-candles as measured at any one point. Excessive lighting for the purposes of attraction and advertising shall not be permitted.

  K. Areas not associated with gasoline pump islands or drive throughs such as those used for parking and vehicle storage shall be illuminated in accordance with the parking area requirements of Section [1271.02](524a02d4.html)(b)(3)N.

  L. Light fixtures mounted on canopies shall be recessed or flush with the bottom of the canopy. Where a drop-down fixture is used, the lens shall be flush with (i.e., no more than one inch beyond) the casing so that light is directed down and not sideways. All canopy lighting shall be shielded to provide a cut-off angle of eighty-five (85) degrees. Fixtures shall not be mounted on the top or sides of canopies.

  M. The illumination of canopy sides is prohibited.

  N. The following illumination levels shall act as minimum standards for all exterior lighting. Maximum lighting will be governed by the four to one (4:1) ratio of average to minimum illumination of the surface being lit standards identified in Section [1271.02](524a02d4.html)(b)(3)E. above; in no case shall the maximum lighting level exceed the maximum identified in the table below. Where a site abuts a nonresidential district, maximum illumination at the property line shall not exceed one (1) foot-candle. The Planning Commission may modify these levels or place conditions on their application (e.g., the installation of screening such as an open buffer, landscaping, wall, or fence) if such modifications are deemed necessary and appropriate for the use and surrounding area.

Standards applicable to areas 

within the site plan:

Minimum Illumination *

Maximum Illumination*

  (measured in foot-candles)

Parking lots and associated circulation

areas

0.4

6.0

Loading areas

0.4

6.0

Walkways

0.2

2.0

Outdoor display and sales areas

0.4

6.0

Primary building entrances-designed for public use

1.0

5.0

Secondary building entrances-designed for

service and delivery

0.2

5.0

*The minimum and maximum light measured in foot-candles at the point of least or greatest, respectively, illumination when measured at ground level.

  O. Where a site abuts a residential district or use, the following special conditions shall apply:

   1. The height of light fixtures shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet.

   2. All fixtures shall be fully shielded light fixtures.

   3. No direct light source shall be visible at the property line (adjacent to residential) at ground level.

   4. Maximum illumination at the property line shall not exceed one-half (0.5) foot-candles.

For the purposes of this ordinance, the O-R, Office- Residential District shall be considered a residential district due to its status as a transition between more intensive retail and residential districts.

  P. The Planning Commission may choose to waive or alter fully shielded light fixture requirements of this section when appropriate historic or decorative fixtures are proposed (e.g., the use of decorative up-lighting to illuminate the underside of a canopy or columns on a facade, where a canopy or roof projection restricts the projection of the light into the night sky).

(c) Maintenance. All installed and approved light fixtures shall be kept in good repair. This includes, but is not limited to, replacing non-working bulbs, repairing broken or malfunctioning fixtures and similar activities. Failure to maintain fixtures shall be deemed a violation of the Planning and Zoning Code and/or the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Springboro.

On the repair, replacement, or relocation of any fixture, the fixture shall be brought in compliance with these guidelines. Existing fixtures that are currently not in compliance with these guidelines do not need to be brought in compliance until such time as any repair, replacement, or relocation of the fixture is performed.

(d) Exemptions. The following lighting applications shall be exempt from the provisions of this section:

(1) Roadway and airport lighting required by the appropriate public agency for health, safety and welfare purposes;

(2) National, state and local flag lighting, provided that the illumination is a maximum of 10 foot-candles, and that the light source is aimed and fully- shielded to direct light only onto the intended target and to prevent glare for motorists, pedestrians and adjacent property;

(3) Lighting for sporting events;

(4) Holiday lighting provided individual lamps do not exceed 10 watts;

(5) Temporary lighting for theatrical, television and performance areas;

(6) Code-required lighting for stairs and ramps, and lighting required and regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration and/or other state federal agencies;

(7) Emergency lighting approved by the City of Springboro, provided the lighting is discontinued upon the abatement of the emergency necessitating said lighting;

(8) Other temporary lighting determined to be reasonable and appropriate by the Director of Planning; and

(9) Architectural lighting shall be permitted on vertical surfaces of a structure provided the following conditions are met:

  A. Lighting levels do not exceed five (5.0) foot-candles at any one point on the elevation;

  B. Lighting shall be located, shielded and aimed so light is only directed on the building surface;

  C. Lighting shall not be directed toward adjacent streets, roads or residential areas;

  D. To the maximum extent practical, lighting fixtures shall be directed below the horizontal rather than above; and

  E. Aside from security lighting, building elevations visible from adjacent residential property (i.e., residential properties that directly abut the property on which the building lies) shall not be lighted.

   (Ord. 05-13. Passed 5-5-05.)

  F. Such lighting shall comply with Section [1271.03](528da505.html)(b)(3)F.

   (Ord. 12-2. Passed 1-5-12.)