---
layout: default 
title: 1271.03 EXTERIOR FACADE DESIGN STANDARDS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Applicability. With the exception of specific uses and areas of the
City of Springboro identified in Section [1272](524a02d4.html) of the
Planning and Zoning Code.

​(b) Exemptions. The following are exempt from the design standards
established in this section:

​(1) Certain residential uses. The construction and alteration of single
or two- family dwellings and buildings accessory to those uses on a lot
where there exists no other principal building or use.

​(2) Certain manufacturing uses. The construction and alteration of
manufacturing uses within the M-1, Light Manufacturing District; M-2,
Heavy Manufacturing District; and ED, Employment Center District. Non-
manufacturing uses in these districts are not exempt from the provisions
of this section.

​(3) Town Center Overlay District. The construction and alteration of
properties subject to the provisions of the Town Center Overlay
District, Section [1264.19](4f640305.html) of the Planning and Zoning
Code.

​(4) Protected properties. The construction and alteration of protected
properties as defined in and subject to the provisions of the Historic
Preservation Code, Chapter [1229](47ba3598.html) of the Planning and
Zoning Code.

​(5) Limited alterations. Any alteration of a structure affecting less
than thirty percent (30%) of any one (1) elevation, as measured by the
total square footage of the elevation existing as of the date of
enactment of this section, or as of the date of approval of a site plan,
shall be exempt from this section.

​(6) Ordinary repairs and maintenance. The ordinary repair or
maintenance of a building, structure, landscaping, screening or other
site improvement shall not require the preparation or approval of a site
plan.

​(c) Design Standards. The following design standards shall be used for
development subject to this section:

​(1) All building elevations shall consist of a tripartite configuration
consisting of a base or foundation; a middle or modulated wall; and a
top portion formed by a pitched roof or articulated cornice.

​(2) All building elevations shall be articulated in a manner to avoid
an uninterrupted appearance through the use of windows, doors, offsets
or a change in materials.

​(3) The following building materials are permitted for use under this
section:

A. Residential-scale brick using non-glazed finishes;

B. Natural stone material;

C. Natural and natural-based wood materials excluding T-111 or similar
materials;

D. Exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS) above the pedestrian
elevation;

E. Split-face concrete masonry unit (CMU) on exposed foundations and
using colors imbedded into the material;

F. Glass only for windows and doors. Curtain walls are not permitted.

G. Metal cladding for use as roofing material; and

H. Concrete siding designed to share an appearance of wood siding such
as Hardiboard or Hardiplank.

​(4) No less than three (3) and no more than four (4) of the materials
listed above may be used on a building.

​(5) The majority of the building elevations shall be finished in the
natural material color or neutral, earth tones with a single accent
color approved by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 05-29. Passed 8-4-05.)

​(6) The use of glass, metal and other materials associated with solar
energy systems as regulated in Section [1271.06](52f5c3a5.html) is
permitted subject to Planning Commission review and approval.

(Ord. 12-37. Passed 8-16-12.)
