---
layout: default
title: "1271&#46;04 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Purpose. These off-street parking standards and requirements are established to promote the orderly growth and development of the community. They are also intended to relieve congestion so streets and highways can be used in part to convey the movement of vehicles and that so that the demands of new development will not adversely affect adjacent land uses and surrounding neighborhoods.

(b) Applicability. Hereafter no building shall be erected or altered and no land used unless adequate off-street parking is provided for the needs of users, tenants, personnel and patrons.

(c) Off-street parking lot design requirements.

(1) Design of parking lots. All off-street parking lots and access driveways** **shall be designed and built in accordance with the City of Springboro Standard Construction Drawings and Specifications as maintained by the City of Springboro Engineering Department.

(2) Maintenance of parking lots. The parking lot shall be maintained in accordance with the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Springboro and to the manner of the design of the parking lot as approved.

(3) Lighting of parking lots. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking lot shall comply with Section [1271.02](524a02d4.html) of the Planning and Zoning Code.

(4) Screening and landscaping of off-street parking lots. Off-street parking lots for more than ten (10) vehicles shall be effectively screened on each side that adjoins or faces lots situated in any Residential District by a fence or wall of acceptable design. Such fence or wall shall be not less than four (4) feet or more than six (6) feet in height and shall be maintained in good condition. The space between such fence or wall and the lot line of the adjoining premises in any Residential District shall be landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground cover and maintained in good condition. In lieu of such wall or fence, a strip of land not less than ten feet in width, and planted and maintained with an evergreen hedge or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less than four feet in height, may be substituted.

(5) Minimum parking stall and aisle design and dimensions. Each off-street parking space stall and aisle** **shall meet the minimum dimensions identified in Table 1 and Figure 1 in this section.

  *Table 1. Minimum Design Standards for Off-Street Parking Lots.*

Legend

Parking Angle 
(in degrees)

Angle

A

0

30 

45 

60 

90

Stall Width on Angle

SW

8

9

9

9

9

Stall Length on Angle

SL

24

18

18

18

18

Stall Length Perpendicular to Aisle

SP

8

17

19

20

18

Aisle Width, One-Way

AW1

12

12

12

18

24

Aisle Width, Two-Way

AW2

20

20

20

22

24

Total Width, One Stall, One-Way Aisle

TW1

20

29

31

38

42

Total Width, Two Stalls, One-Way Aisle

TW2

28

46

50

58

60

Total Width, One Stall, Two-Way Aisle

TW3

28

37

39

42

42

Total Width, Two-Stalls, Two Way Aisle

TW4

36

54

58

62

60

Note: All figures are measured in feet unless otherwise noted

Legend references to Figure 1 below

  *Figure 1. Minimum Design Standards for Off-Street Parking Lots.*

(6) Access. Each off-street parking space shall have vehicular access to a street, alley or other legal right-of-way. Access drives shall comply with visibility at intersection standards contained in the Planning and Zoning Code.

(7) Parking lot location. For non-residential zoning districts&#151;including non- residential uses in an O-R, Office-Residential Zoning District&#151;no part of any parking lot or circulation aisle shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling, school, hospital or other institution for human care or habitation located on an adjacent zoning lot, unless screened according to the landscaping provisions of these regulations. In no case shall any part of a parking lot or circulation aisle be closer than nine feet (9') to any established street or alley right-of-way or property line.

(8) Accessibility requirements. All off-street parking lots shall be designed to meet minimum standards established in the Americans with Disabilities Act or its successors.


(d) Number of Parking Spaces Required.

(1) Units of measure and means of off-street parking requirement calculation. In computing the requirement for off-street parking spaces, the following units of measure shall be uses:

  A. Whenever the number of off-street parking spaces required is determined by gross square feet of floor area, it shall be measured from the exterior surface of exterior walls or from the center line of walls separating buildings.

  B. In the case of benches, pews and similar seating accommodations, each eighteen (18) inches thereof shall be counted as one (1) seat for the purpose of determining the parking requirements.

  C. Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be construed to be the nearest whole number.

  D. In the case of mixed-use sites or shopping centers, the parking spaces required shall be five (5) parking spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet.

  E. Parking spaces designated for use by vehicle fleets shall not be credited to the parking requirement.

(2) Minimum off-street parking space requirements for specific land uses. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required shall be calculated using the Table 2 in this section:

  *Table 2. Minimum Parking Requirements.*

**Land use**

**Minimum off-street 

parking spaces required**

Single-family and two-family residential2 spaces per dwelling unit

Multi-family residential2.2 spaces per dwelling unit

Hotel, motel, lodging house, dormitory1 space/room plus 1 space/employee maximum shift

Private club or lodge1 space per 5 members

Church or religious institutions1 space per 5 seats in main auditorium

Daycare facility, nursery schools and nursing homes1 space per 5 children or adults plus 1 space for each employee

Elementary school or junior high school1 space per 5 seats in main auditorium

College or high school1 space per teacher or employee plus 0.5 space/ per student

Library, museum or art gallery1 space per 300 gross square feet of floor area

Theater, sports arena, auditorium, stadium or gymnasium other than a school or college1 space per 5 seats

Retail establishment (e.g., DLM, drug store, convenience store)1 space per 200 gross square feet of floor area

Offices, general (e.g., insurance, attorney)1 space per 300 gross square feet of floor area

Offices, medical, dental and allied fields1 space per 200 gross square feet of floor area

Nightclubs1 space per 200 gross square feet of floor area

Restaurants, drive-in and fast food1 space per 75 gross square feet of floor area plus 1 space per employee, maximum shift

Restaurants, neighborhood1 space per 150 gross square feet of floor area plus 1 space per employee, maximum shift

Dance halls, assembly or exhibition halls without fixed seating1 space per 200 gross square feet of floor area

Wholesale and warehousing1 space per 1,000 gross square feet of floor area

Manufacturing, industrial, research or testing laboratory, bottling plant1 space per employee maximum shift

(3) Minimum off-street parking requirements for other land uses. The minimum off-street parking space requirement for land uses not specifically identified in the table above shall be the same as the minimum off-street requirement for a use of a similar nature or as determined by the Director of Planning using references such as the Institute of Transportation Engineers "Parking Generation," 3rd edition or its successor publication, or American Planning Association PAS Report 510/511 "Parking Standards" or its successor publication.

(4) Maximum off-street parking requirement. The maximum off-street parking requirement shall be one hundred and fifty percent (150%) of the minimum identified in the table above. The provision of parking over the minimum requirement shall only be permitted when accompanied by an increased amount of landscaping as required as defined in the Landscaping section of these Supplemental Regulations.

(e) Other Provisions.

(1) Allowance for Shared Parking. The Planning Commission may accept a site plan that satisfies the off-street parking requirements by use of off- site shared parking with the City or another nonresidential user. In determining whether to accept the proposed site plan, the Planning Commission may consider the proximity and accessibility of the off-site location to the proposed development site, the hours of operation of both users, the number of spaces available and required for each business and the compatibility of uses. 

(2) Reduction of off-street parking requirements in certain circumstances. Excluding parking for residential uses, the parking requirement for uses** **where on-street parking is provided on adjacent rights-of-way, may be reduced to fifty percent (50%) of the minimum requirement identified in subsection (d)(4) above. 

  (Ord. 06-12. Passed 5-18-06; Ord. 08-06. Passed 4-17-08.)