---
layout: default
title: "1271&#46;05 UTILITY STRUCTURES."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Applicability and Exemptions. This section shall apply to structures that house above-ground utility devices such as electrical transformers, switch boxes, telephone pedestals, telephone boxes, cable television boxes, and similar devices, where any two (2) of the dimensions of the utility structure are greater than thirty inches (30&quot;) in terms of height, width or depth. The following installations of utility structures shall also be exempted from their provisions:

(1) Utility structures that are attached to and located within at least two feet (2') of the principal structure of a lot; or

(2) Utility structures that are traffic signal control boxes or other City equipment; or

(3) Essential services as defined in Section [1260.05(](4c942bd2.html)14), Definitions.

(b) Siting Requirements for Utility Structures.

(1) Siting requirements applicable to all locations.

  A. The placement of any utility structures shall not obstruct sight distance requirements for street intersections and drives as established by the City of Springboro Engineering Department.

  B. No utility structures shall be located within five (5) feet of any fire hydrant.

  C. Utility structures shall be located at least one hundred (100) feet apart from another such facility.

(2) Utility structures in rights of way. Utility structures may be located in the public right of way in compliance with the City of Springboro Right of Way Ordinance, Chapter [1028](413a916d.html) of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Springboro, and the applicable provisions of this section.

(3) Utility structures located on private property. Utility structures located on private property shall be located only within the area of a recorded easement that permits such a structure or outside required front yards established for the zoning district in which the property is located. Utility structures may be located in required side or rear yards for the zoning district in which the property is located. Utility structures shall be placed as far back from a public right of way as reasonably possible or as determined by the Director of Planning or their designee.

(c) Appearance Standards.

(1) The exterior color of all utility structures shall be green or brown.

(2) The color and location of all labeling to be placed on the exterior of any utility structure shall be approved by the Director of Planning or their designee prior to the placement of this labeling.

(3) All labeling on any single Utility Box shall cover a combined area no larger than one-half square feet in area.

(4) Electric meters that are to be placed in conjunction with an utility structure box installation shall be placed in a manner that minimizes its visibility from the closest public right of way. In no case shall electric meters be attached to the top surface of a utility structure. The placement of the meter is to be shown on any electrical permit application that accompanies the proposed utility structure application.

(5) If the utility structure installation requires the installation of a pad affixed to the ground, the pad shall be constructed of concrete.

(d) Screening Standards. Utility boxes shall be screened with (1) landscaping or (2) walls and fences as follows:

(1) Landscaping. Unless fences or walls are used to screen such utility structures, existing or new landscaping may be used to screen utility structure installations provided that the screening furnishes at least fifty percent (50%) opacity after one year's (one growing season) growth. At least one-third of the plantings shall be evergreen unless otherwise approved by the Director of Planning or their designee. The locations, size and types of required screening plants shall be approved by the Director of Planning or their designee prior to approval.

(2) Fences or walls. Unless landscaping is used to screen such utility structures, existing or new fences and walls may be used to meet utility screening requirements insofar as they are consistent with fence and wall provisions of Section [1270.47](518a3a13.html), Fences, Walls and Hedges, of the Planning and Zoning Code. The location, size and types of required screening plants shall be approved by the Director of Planning or their designee prior to approval.

(3) Other screening. Screening of the utility structure may also be achieved through the placement of the utility structure adjacent to existing accessory structures.

(e) Approvals, Submissions Requirements, Fees, Maintenance and Removal of Obsolete Utility Structures.

(1) The submission of an application for a permit shall be required for the placement of any utility structure and shall be submitted to the Director of Planning or their designee. The owner of the utility structure shall complete an application that includes a scaled site plan of the proposed utility structure location(s); scale drawings indicating the size of the structure(s), materials and color; labeling information; pad installation information; and screening.

(2) Each person submitting an application for a permit under the provisions of this section shall pay a fee, as set forth in Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html) of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Springboro.

(3) The applicant shall submit to the City of Springboro, along with the Certificate of Zoning Compliance, a copy of the easement or other written documentation that clearly shows the legal authority and ownership of property rights sufficient for the applicant to place the Utility Box in the proposed location.

(4) Utility structures shall be considered to be structures for the purposes of the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Springboro and maintained consistent with such code.

(5) Obsolete Utility structures, including pads, shall be removed and be replaced with grass or other landscaping as required by the Director of Planning or their designee. Restoration of the property shall occur within three (3) months after the abandonment of the utility structure. Unless otherwise provided for, all restoration costs and expenses shall be the obligation of the owner of the utility structure or the applicant for the Certificate of Zoning Compliance.

  (Ord. 08-23. Passed 7-3-08.)