---
layout: default
title: "1272&#46;02 DEFINITIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

As used in this chapter: 

(a) &quot;Business Zoning District(s)&quot; or &quot;Business Districts&quot; means the B-1 Highway, the B-2 Local, the B-3 Central, and B-4 Destination Business Zoning Districts identified in Chapter [1264](4dade3b7.html) of the Zoning Ordinances of the City of Springboro. 

(b)  &quot;Common open space&quot; means a parcel or parcels of land or an area of water or a combination of land and water within a site, designed and intended for the use or enjoyment of all the occupants of the PUD. Common open space may contain such structures and improvements as are necessary for the benefit and enjoyment of all the occupants of the PUD district. Common open space may include, but is not limited to, educational and recreational facilities, natural areas, landscaped areas, flood protection, bikeways, public parking, street rights-of-way in excess of sixty feet in width, or other improvements or amenities beneficial to the health, safety and welfare of the public, PUD occupants or PUD visitors, as determined by the Planning Commission and expressly approved as common open space by the Planning Commission. 

(c)  &quot;Concept plan&quot; or &quot;conceptual plan&quot; means a plan, drawn to a representative scale and using real property information obtained from a professionally-prepared survey or other source, indicating the distribution of land uses, streets, and roadways within a proposed PUD for the purposes of preliminary discussion prior to the formal consideration of a PUD. 

(d)  &quot;Conventional zoning&quot; means zoning districts, other than PUDs, such as Business Districts, Manufacturing Districts, Office Districts, and Residential Districts. 

(e)  &quot;Council&quot; or &quot;City Council&quot; means the City Council of the City of Springboro, Ohio. 

(f)  &quot;Developer&quot; means the legal or equitable owners of all the land proposed to be included in the PUD, including the holder of an option or contract to purchase, or other person having an enforceable proprietary interest in such land. One individual must be designated as spokesperson for the developers throughout the project. Such designation may be changed during the project, but only the designated spokesperson will be recognized by the City in proceedings regarding the project. 

(g)  &quot;Dwelling&quot;. 

(1) &quot;Dwelling unit&quot; means that space, within a building, comprising living, dining and sleeping rooms and storage closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking, bathing and toilet facilities, all used by only one family and its household employees.

(2) "Single-family dwelling&quot; means a detached building designated for, or converted or occupied exclusively by, one family, living independently of each other, with cooking and toilet facilities in each building unit.

(3) "Two-family dwelling&quot; means a detached building designated for, or converted or occupied exclusively by, two families, living independently of each other, with cooking and toilet facilities in each dwelling unit.

(4)  &quot;Multi-family dwelling&quot; means a detached building designed for, or converted or occupied by, three or more families, living independently of each other, with cooking and toilet facilities in each dwelling unit. 

(h)  &quot;Final development plan&quot; means any PUD application that fulfills the requirements of Step 2 in the PUD approval process at outlined in Section [1272.19](54128743.html) of the Zoning Code. 

(i)  &quot;General plan&quot; means any PUD application that fulfills the requirements of Step 1 in the PUD approval process at outlined in Section [1272.16](53cef663.html)(d) of the Zoning Code. 

(j)  &quot;Major change&quot; means any proposed modification of a subdivision that: 

(1) Materially alters the character or effect of the subdivision in terms of land use, street layout, traffic generation, curb cuts, parking requirements, nature of parcel occupancy (e.g., changing single occupancy to multiple occupancy) or nuisances such as air pollution or noise, compared to the approved Final Development Plan. As to PUD developments for which a final development plan was not required prior to the commencement of construction due to the parcel-by-parcel review of final development plans or for any other reason, a major change is any proposed modification of a subdivision which materially alters the character or impact of the project in terms of land use, street layout, traffic generation, curb cuts, parking requirements, nature of parcel occupancy (e.g., changing single occupancy to multiple occupancy) or nuisances such as air pollution or noise, compared to the most detailed plan for the subdivision approved by the City.

(2) Exceeds the limits defining a minor change.

(k)  &quot;Manufacturing Zoning Districts&quot; or &quot;Manufacturing Districts&quot; means the M-1 Light Manufacturing and M-2 Heavy Manufacturing Zoning Districts identified in Chapter [1264](4dade3b7.html) of the Zoning Ordinances of the City of Springboro. 

(l)  &quot;Minor change" means any proposed modification of a subdivision that does not do any of the following: 

(1) Change the use or character of the development;

(2) Increase overall building footprint of any structure more than ten percent (10%);

(3) Increase overall development density more than ten percent (10%);

(4) Reduce open space more than five percent (5%);

(5) Reduce off-street parking or loading space more than ten percent (10%); or

(6) Alter the location of structures more than ten feet.

(m) &quot;Office Zoning District(s)&quot; or &quot;Office Districts&quot; mean the O-R, Office-Residential Zoning District, O-1 Office, and O-2 Office Park Zoning Districts identified in Chapter [1264](4dade3b7.html) of the Zoning Ordinances of the City of Springboro. 

(n)  &quot;Open space&quot; means, for the purposes of this Chapter, land on individual lots where structures, roadways and other paved areas, and other impervious surfaces are prohibited. 

(o)  &quot;Planning Commission&quot; or &quot;Commission&quot; means the Planning Commission of the City of Springboro, Ohio. 

(p)  &quot;Record plan&quot; means a PUD application that fulfills the requirements of Step 3 in the PUD approval process at outlined in Section [1272.22](542fa170.html) of the Zoning Code. 

(q)  &quot;Residential Zoning District(s)&quot; or &quot;Residential Districts&quot; means the R-1 Estate- Type Residential, R-1A Low-Density Residential Transitional, R-2 Low Density Residential, R-2A Low Density Residential Revised, and R-3 Medium Density Residential Zoning Districts identified in Chapter [1264](4dade3b7.html) of the Zoning Ordinances of the City of Springboro. 
(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)

(r)  &quot;Subdivision Regulations&quot; means Part IV of the Planning and Zoning Code of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Springboro, Ohio.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.) 

(s)  &quot;Zoning Code&quot; means Chapter [1284](4c764b58.html) inclusive of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Springboro, Ohio. 

(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)