---
layout: default 
title: 1272.04 AREA, DENSITY AND LOT REGULATIONS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Minimum Area for Development. A PUD shall contain a minimum of one
(1) acre. All land within the development shall be contiguous in that it
shall not be divided into segments by a limited access highway or by a
tract of land (other than streets or rights-of-way for public or private
utility transmission lines) not owned by the landowner of the PUD.

​(b) Maximum Density Development. A PUD shall not exceed the gross
density permitted in the conventional zoning district most similar in
nature and function to the pertinent portion of the PUD, as determined
by the Planning Commission, with the following exceptions:

​(1) All densities are to be determined on the basis of gross dwelling
units per acre, excluding such acreage as is used for nonresidential
purposes, as determined by the Commission.

​(2) Densities may be increased by the Commission in the net project
area where the factors listed herein make a substantial improvement in
the PUD:

A. Landscaping; streetscape; open spaces and plazas; use of existing
landscape; pedestrian way treatment; and residential areas;

B. Setting, visual focus points; use of existing physical features such
as topography; view of sun and wind orientation; circulation pattern;
physical environment; variation in building setbacks; and building
groups (such as clustering);

C. Design features; street sections; architectural styles; harmonious
use of materials; parking areas broken by landscape features; and varied
use of building types; or

D. Common open space above the district requirements.

E. Availability of contiguous publicly-owned open space, off-street
parking, storm water retention basins and other facilities which reduce
the need for such facilities within the PUD.

(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)

​(c) Minimum Requirements.

​(1) Dwelling unit size, yard setback, type of dwelling unit, frontage
and use restrictions, as established by conventional zoning may be
waived for PUDs, provided that the intent and objectives of Section
[1272.01](5336b269.html) are complied within the total development plan,
as determined by the Commission. Further provided no open structures
shall encroach within ten (10) feet of the rear yard line. Building
separation shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of
the Fire Prevention Code and other safety codes of the City and in
accordance with good design principles.

​(2) Every dwelling unit shall have continuous paved pedestrian access
to adequate vehicle parking facilities conveniently located nearby.

​(d) Perimeter Requirements. If topographical or other barriers within
the development do not provide reasonable privacy for existing uses
adjacent to the development, the Commission shall impose either of the
following requirements, or both:

​(1) Structures located on the perimeter of the development must be set
back in accordance with the provisions of the conventional zoning
district most similar in nature and function to the portion of the PUD
in which the structure within the development is situated.

​(2) Structures located on the perimeter of the development must be well
screened in a manner approved by the Commission.

(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)

​(e) Open Structures. Open structures, such a decks, porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios and similar architectural
projections shall be considered part of the building to which they are
attached. A PUD shall provide for the possible future construction of
open structures on the property by individual lot owners by setting
forth in the PUD the maximum distance such open structures may encroach
into the rear yard setback provided same is within the intent and
objectives of Section [1272.01](5336b269.html) and approved by the
Planning Commission. Further, all open structures must provide an exit
into the yard except in those instances when substantial grade changes
in the yard make an exit into the yard impractical.

(Ord. 05-12. Passed 5-5-05.)
