---
layout: default 
title: "1272.05 INTERIOR STREETS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Interior streets shall be constructed according to Municipal
specifications, as delineated in the Subdivision Regulations, and
properly lighted and maintained to conform with City ordinances. Their
minimum paved roadway widths shall ordinarily be as delineated in the
Subdivision Regulations and in the Thoroughfare Plan. However, approval
of interior access streets with different nonstructural dimensions will
be considered by the Planning Commission and Council where the developer
can demonstrate compliance with Section [1272.01](5336b269.html)and
receive approval from the Municipal Engineer. Approval of the PUD with
such differences will constitute lawful approval of a variance from the
Subdivision Regulations. Where streets are not fully constructed in
accord with the subdivision regulations and thoroughfare plan, such
streets shall be privately owned and maintained, and shall be
constructed entirely within a public access easement. All public access
easements shall be designated on the general plan, the final development
plan, and the record plan for each section of the development.

​(b) On the record plan, the following covenant shall appear which
establishes the rights and responsibilities of the property owner and
the City with regard to public access easements:

​(1) To insure the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
Springboro, private drives constructed within designated public access
easements shall be open and accessible to fire, police and other
emergency and maintenance vehicles at all times. Street improvements
within these easements shall be continuously maintained by the owner in
good repair and kept free from all obstructions that would impede the
free movement of public traffic, including but not limited to ice, snow
and parked vehicles. Where necessary, in accordance with a traffic
control plan approved by the City of Springboro, traffic control devices
shall be provided and installed by the owner as directed by the City
Engineer. To insure compliance with traffic control devices in public
access easements, the City of Springboro shall have full power and
authority to enforce such controls and to prosecute violations in
accordance with the laws of the City and the State.

​(2) No public access easement shall be blocked for any purpose without
prior approval of the City.

​(3) In the event that the owner of a public access easement fails to
fulfill the obligations set forth in these covenants, conditions and
restrictions, the City of Springboro is hereby authorized, after
providing reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to the property
owner, to take such corrective action as it deems necessary, to charge
the owner for the entire cost thereof, and in the event of failure of
prompt payment, to collect said costs as a special assessment against
the property.

​(4) Proper drainage within public access easements shall be provided
for and maintained in the development and redevelopment of contiguous
properties in a manner approved by the City.

(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)
