---
layout: default 
title: 1272.19 PUD APPLICATION STEP 2: FINAL DEVELOPMENT
PLAN.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

Before any part of a PUD subdivision may be reflected in a Record Plan
and recorded, the improvements and uses previously described in an
approved General Plan must be merged and detailed in a Final Development
Plan. No final development plan shall be considered or approved without
formal approval by City Council of both the amendment to the Official
Zoning Map and the General Plan. Once these approvals have been
received, the owner may seek approval for a final development plan for
the overall PUD, for sections of the PUD, or for individual parcels. The
last alternative may be particularly appropriate where lot sizes may
depend on the particular needs of prospective purchasers, and those
purchasers are unknown at the time the General Plan is approved. The
Final Development Plan shall show the following, in addition to those
items required in the General Plan:

​(a) The area to be developed and the area to be devoted to open space
for the use of all residents of the PUD, with accurate acreage, courses
and distances, as determined by a engineer or surveyor licensed in the
State of Ohio who shall sign such plan and certify to the accuracy
thereof. The boundaries of any area for which final development plan
approval is requested shall not be gerrymandered to comply with the
density and open space acreage criteria but shall be proportioned and
allotted so that required open space is convenient to the residential
properties included in the area submitted for final approval;

​(b) The location and floor plans of all buildings, descriptive data as
to and elevation drawings detailing the type of buildings, the number of
dwelling units in each separate type and the number of bedrooms per unit
of apartment (multifamily dwelling) buildings, and the number of
bedrooms in each apartment unit;

​(c) Clear designations of nonresidential, mixed use and residential
buildings, of nonresidential and residential spaces within buildings,
and of the kinds of nonresidential land uses permissible within the
nonresidential spaces, as approved by the Planning Commission;

​(d) A title guarantee or rider to an existing policy, prepared by a
reputable title company, showing the legal description of the land which
has been set aside for open space and showing appropriate restrictions,
limiting the use of such land to recreation and open space in perpetuity
and granting owners and residents of the area to be developed a right to
an easement of use in such open space;

​(e) A detailed plan setting forth the manner, means and proposed time
of transfer of the land reserved for open space to a nonprofit entity
and the obligations and rights of use of such open space by all
residents of the area; and

​(f) Assured provisions for continuously and adequately financing the
expenses of the nonprofit entity.

(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)
