---
layout: default 
title: "1272.20 CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The Planning Commission shall review each final development plan and
approve, modify and approve, or disapprove the plan and transmit notice
thereof to the applicant within a reasonable time. The Commission shall
give the final approval of uses only upon finding that the following
requirements are met:

​(a) No requirement of this chapter, as existing at the time of general
plan approval, is violated by the final development plan;

​(b) The final development plan accurately sets forth the area to be
developed and the area to be set aside as open space with appropriate
boundaries established by course and distances, and the acreage within
the area to be approved is set forth as well as the acreage of the area
to be set aside as open space for the use of all residents of the area;

​(c) The final development plan is substantially in accordance with the
general plan that had been previously filed with and approved by the
Commission and City Council;

​(d) The density of dwelling units in any area of the PUD does not
exceed that shown on the general plan by more than ten percent (10%),
and any change is supported by appropriate reasons, and the overall
density of the PUD District as set forth in the general plan has not
been exceeded;

​(e) The area reserved for open space and recreation satisfies the
requirements of Section [1272.08](5394af73.html);

​(f) Satisfactory progress has been made under previously approved set
final development plans with respect to the provision and improvement of
indicated open space and recreational facilities;

​(g) The final development plan accurately sets forth a schedule
demonstrating proportionate development of the open space and
recreational facilities in conjunction with the total project. A
performance bond may be allowed to substitute for actual construction.
Any construction covered by a performance bond shall be completed within
one year. The amenities included in each phase shall be substantially
completed prior to the issuance of occupancy permits; and

​(h) All areas designated for public acceptance are conceptually
satisfactory to the City, including public access easements.

(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)
