---
layout: default 
title: "1272&#46;22 PUD APPLICATION STEP 3: RECORD PLAN."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Within six (6) months of approval of the final development plan for
any specific area within the project or for the overall project, a
record plan for the area shown on the final development plan shall be
submitted in accordance with the Subdivision Regulations.

(Ord. 04-41. Passed 8-19-04.)

​(b) Documents. At the time record plans are filed with the Planning
Commission, the developer shall also file:

​(1) Cost estimates for all public improvements in the subdivision plan;
and

​(2) Other documents and assurances required by the Subdivision
Regulations.

​(c) Final Approval by Planning Commission. Within sixty (60) days after
the record plan is filed, with all necessary documents and exhibits, the
Commission shall approve, approve and modify or disapprove the record
plan and forward its recommendation to City Council.

​(d) Final Approval by Council. Within sixty (60) days after approval by
the Commission of the record plan, Council shall approve, modify and
approve, or disapprove it.

​(e) Recording. Upon Council approval of the record plan, the Commission
shall notify the applicant, and thereafter, upon payment of the required
fee by the applicant and compliance with all subdivision regulations,
the City shall see to it that the record plan maps and other related
documents are recorded with the Recorders Office Montgomery and/or
Warren County. At the same time, the final development plan
corresponding to the record plan shall also be recorded by the City.
(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)
