---
layout: default 
title: 1272.23 FAILURE TO BEGIN OR CONTINUE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The construction of a subdivision under PUD zoning is authorized by
agreement between the City and the land owner. This agreement,
regardless of its form, is a contract intended to assure the orderly
construction of a complete, well-planned development. Should the land
owner breach this contract by abandoning construction or failing to
proceed with the development at the pace agreed upon, the City shall be
entitled to implement certain remedies, as set forth in the following
paragraphs.

​(b) If a complete record plan approval application is not submitted
within three (3) months of the approval of a final development plan, the
final development plan shall be null and void. The Commission, for good
cause, may extend for consecutive periods of six months the time for
submitting the record plan application.

​(c) If no construction has begun in the PUD within one (1) year after
the recording of a record plan for the overall project or any part
thereof, the record plan may be vacated by resolution of the City
Council and be of no further effect. The Commission, for good cause, may
extend for periods of up to six (6) months the time for beginning
construction.

​(d) Should a land owner who has been authorized to develop a PUD under
this Chapter [1272](53182510.html), or under any previous PUD
regulations of the City, sell or otherwise convey ownership of any part
of that PUD to another before all planned public improvements such as
streets, curb cuts, and utilities are constructed therein in accord with
plans and specifications approved by the City, and/or before all lands
required for the public use therein have been dedicated to the City,
that land owner shall be deemed to have abandoned that portion of the
PUD and to have breached all agreements with the City to the extent that
they relate to development of the portion sold. In case of such
abandonment and breach, the City may, pursuant to a recommendation by
the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council, pursue any of
the following remedies or any others available to it under the law:

​(1) Enforce the subdivider's contract executed by the breaching owner,
if such contract exists.

​(2) Withdraw its approval of all plans for that portion of the PUD and
require any subsequent owner desiring to develop the site to begin with
submission of a proposed new General Plan. This remedy may be
particularly appropriate when the new land owner intends to be a
subdivider of the conveyed property.

​(3) In a situation where the new owner wishes to continue the
development of a subdivision, require the new owner to execute a
subdivider's contract, performance bond and all other documents and
assurances required by the City to guarantee those dedications and
public improvements which were not completed by the former owner.

​(e) In the event that the new owner and the City agree to implement the
third alternative, the new owner may proceed in accord with the approved
Final Development Plan, under the provisions of this Chapter. If for any
reason the subdivision has not received approval of a General Plan,
Final Development Plan and Record Plan, the new owner shall enter the
review process set forth in this Chapter to obtain any approval not
obtained by the previous owner. Thereafter, the new owner shall not
deviate from the approved plans except through the revision procedures
of Section [1272.24](544ee2ac.html), or by requesting and receiving a
change of zoning classification.

​(f) If an approved record plan is vacated as provided herein, notice of
such vacation shall be recorded in the records of Montgomery and/or
Warren County by the Commission, and no development can proceed on any
part of the included lands until such time as a new final development
plan and record plan have been submitted and approved.

(Ord. 02-4. Passed 1-17-02.)
