---
layout: default 
title: "1274&#46;05 LOCATION AND SIZE OF SITES AND STRUCTURES; IMPROVEMENTS."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The location and size of mobile home sites and structures within a
mobile home park shall be in accordance with the following provisions:

​(a) Each mobile home site shall have a clearly defined minimum area of
6,000 square feet, with a minimum lot width of sixty feet.

​(b) There shall be a minimum clearance of twenty feet between the
individual mobile homes or trailers.

​(c) All mobile home parks shall meet the Municipal street requirements
and specifi cations currently in effect.

​(d) Walkways not less than three feet wide, which may abut street
pavement, shall be provided from the mobile home sites to the service
buildings.

​(e) Each mobile home site shall be developed with a mobile home stand
of not less than twenty feet by fifty feet and such mobile home stand
shall be not less than ten feet from the mobile home site boundary. The
mobile home stand shall be constructed of a minimum of six inches of
concrete and shall provide not less than four tie-down rings, located at
each corner. Each mobile home site shall be provided with a water outlet
connected to the Municipal or other approved water supply and a
connection to the sewerage or other approved sewerage system.

​(g) Electricity, electrical outlets and wiring shall be in accordance
with the current provisions of the National Electrical Code published by
the National Fire Protection Association.

​(h) The mobile home park shall provide service buildings, complying
with all applicable building regulations, to house laundry facilities
and supplemental toilet facilities. Outside laundry drying yards shall
be enclosed with a six-foot high solid fence in a location associated
with laundry facilities.

​(i) The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded
to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.

​(j) A safe, usable recreation area shall be conveniently located in
each park, the size of which shall be determined at 100 square feet per
household or mobile home.

​(k) No mobile home site shall be located closer to any street
right-of-way line than thirty feet measured horizontally from the
right-of-way line to the lot line of the mobile home site.

​(l) All telephone, electrical and other distribution lines shall be
installed in underground conduits. No overhead lines shall be permitted.
All underground utilities, sanitary sewers and drainage structures
installed in streets or access roads shall be constructed prior to the
surfacing of such roads.

(Ord. 546B. Passed 2-25-76.)
