---
layout: default 
title: "1278&#46;11 LIMITED RELIEF FROM RESTRICTIONS AVAILABLE TO NONCONFORMING BUSINESS OR INDUSTRIAL USES OR STRUCTURES IN"
USINESS OR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, when a nonconforming
multi-family residential, business or industrial use or structure is
located in a zoning district which permits business or industrial uses
(other than agriculture, horticulture or home occupations), the owner of
the property may elect to exercise the following options, subject to the
stated conditions:

​(a) To expand the use or structure on the existing lot provided that
the lot is conforming in all respects to the most restrictive
dimensional requirements which would be in effect if the lot were zoned
to permit the use; and further provided that all yard, area and other
dimensional and functional requirements in effect for the actual
district designation (e.g., lighting, parking) are satisfied.

​(b) To rebuild the structure within twelve months after a casualty
loss, even if the loss is as great as 100%.

​(c) To restart the use on the existing lot, provided it has been
discontinued or abandoned for no more than twelve consecutive months or
for no more than eighteen months during any three-year period. Any
period when government action substantially impedes physical access to
the premises shall not be considered a discontinuance or abandonment.

​(d) To remove and rebuild the structure(s) in the same or different
form or location on the existing lot provided that the lot is conforming
in all respects to the most restrictive dimensional requirements which
would be in effect if the lot were zoned to permit the use; and further
provided that all yard, area and other dimensional and functional
requirements in effect for the actual district designation (e.g.,
lighting, parking) are satisfied.

If the proposed expansion or reconstruction of a nonconforming business
use or structure is of such a nature that it may be permitted only by
exercise of the elective rights provided by this Section
[1280](54e5c471.html), approval of such expansion or reconstruction may
be conditioned upon the provision of new landscaping, fences, walls and
other improvements or design features as may be necessary or desirable
to minimize functional or aesthetic conflicts with adjacent permitted
land uses and to prevent or minimize nuisance conditions.

(Ord. 99-20. Passed 5-6-99.)

**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_**
