---
layout: default 
title: 1280.04 SITE PLAN CONTENTS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Every site plan shall show or provide by written attachments the
following:

​(a) The legal description of the land included in the site plan or
boundary dimensions based upon a field survey, and the names, addresses
and telephone numbers of the owner, developer and designer;

​(b) The boundary lines of the area included in the site plan, including
angles or bearings, dimensions and reference to a section corner,
quarter corner or a point on a recorded plat, and an arrow pointing
north;

​(c) Existing and proposed grades and drainage systems and structures
with topographic contours at intervals not exceeding:

​(1) One foot for slopes zero degrees to six degrees;

​(2) Two feet for slopes six degrees to eighteen degrees; and

​(3) Five feet for slopes over eighteen degrees.

​(d) Natural features such as woodlots, significant isolated trees (dbh
of five inches or more), streams, lakes or ponds, and man-made features
such as existing roads and structures, with indications as to which are
to be retained and which are to be removed or altered, including
identification of adjacent properties and their uses.

​(e) A vicinity sketch showing the location of the site in relation to
the surrounding street system;

​(f) The shape, size, location, height and floor area of all existing
and proposed structures, and the estimated finished ground and basement
floor grades with indications as to which are to be retained and which
are to be removed or altered;

​(g) The front, rear and side elevations of all proposed structures;

​(h) The existing and/or proposed specific usage of the land and all
structures thereon;

​(i) Proposed streets, driveways, parking spaces, loading spaces,
vehicle stacking areas and sidewalks, with indications of direction of
travel for one-way streets and drives, typical sections and geometries
showing the width of streets, drives and sidewalks and the total number
of parking spaces;

​(j) The location and size of all existing and proposed public and
private utilities, sanitary services and waste disposal facilities with
indications as to which are to be retained and which are to be removed
or altered;

​(k) Color-accurate samples of all exterior building materials;

​(l) The location and dimensions of all on-site recreation areas and the
type of recreation to be conducted thereon;

​(m) All proposed landscaping, mounding, fences and walls;

​(n) The locations, dimensions and lighting of all signs. See Chapter
826, Sign Code. (Ord. 00-16. Passed 2-17-00.)

​(o) An exterior lighting plan in compliance with Section
[1271.02](524a02d4.html)(b)(1) of the Planning and Zoning Code; (Ord.
05-29. Passed 8-4-05.)

​(p) Detailed plans of all drainage provisions, detention facilities,
vegetative practices, erosion and sediment control measures, steep
excavations and other protective devices to be constructed in
connection, or as a part of, the proposed work, together with a plan
showing the drainage area of land contributing to the site and the
estimated cubic feet per second of run-off of the area served by any
drain, computed in accordance with current municipal storm drainage
criteria;

​(q) The schedule for the project with anticipated start and completion
dates. If the development is to be staged, the schedule shall show a
general indication as to how the staging is to proceed; what the
anticipated starting and completion dates of each development sequence
may be, specifically addressing stripping and/or clearing, rough grading
and construction, final grading and vegetative establishment and
maintenance, and the time of exposure of each disturbed area prior to
the completion of effective erosion and sediment control measures;

​(r) Any other information necessary to satisfactorily demonstrate
compliance with this chapter or any other statute or ordinance; and

​(s) A color rendering of the landscape plan, in plan view, and a color
rendering of each building elevation facing a public street shall be
submitted at the time of plan presentation to the Planning Commission.

(Ord. 00-16. Passed 2-17-00.)
