---
layout: default 
title: "1280.07 SITE PLAN REVIEW CRITERIA APPLICABLE TO ALL LAND USES."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

The Planning Commission shall review the site plan and the report of the
City Engineer not later than the next regularly scheduled Commission
meeting where the plan has been presented to the City Engineer at least
nineteen (19) full days prior to the date of that meeting, and shall
either approve the plan or recommend modifications thereof to the
applicant or landowner not more than thirty days after the Commission
meeting. Plan modifications shall be recommended by the Commission when
any of the following requirements are not met:

​(a) The application shall be fully and accurately completed;

​(b) The substance of the plan shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter and any other Municipal ordinance or state or federal law, or
provide an explanation of why any nonconformity should be allowed;

​(c) The plan shall provide adequate parking, loading and vehicle
stacking facilities open space, and lighting systems. Permitted parking
shall be subdivided into units of not more than 150 spaces, and such
units shall be separated by buildings or properly designed walkways,
trees, greenspace or by other comparable techniques;

​(d) The plan shall provide for adequate pedestrian and vehicular
circulation within the development and adjacent public right-of-way;

​(e) The plan shall access the public roadway via curb cuts shared with
adjacent uses to the maximum extent feasible, consistent with sound
traffic engineering standards;

​(e) The plan shall provide adequate utility, waste disposal or sanitary
services;

​(f) The plan shall create a satisfactory and harmonious relationship
between the development of the site and the existing and prospective
development of contiguous land and adjacent neighborhoods;

​(g) The plan shall include all dedications of easements and
rights-of-way, and all public improvements, to conform to and implement
municipal plans for utilities, streets and open space preservation and
development.

​(h) The plan shall include landscaping and screening in conformance
with municipal ordinances, administrative standards or other reasonable
criteria;

​(i) The plan shall eliminate any existing conditions hazardous to
health or safety, shall not create such conditions, and shall not create
a nuisance; and

​(j) The plan shall include all design elements and expressly state all
operational limitations recommended by the Commission which are
reasonably related to the public health, safety and general welfare and
which are desirable to serve the premises or minimize the adverse
effects of the plan on the neighborhood or community. (Ord. 00-16.
Passed 2-17-00.)
