1280.15 EXEMPTIONS.
===================

​(a) Certain Residential Uses. The lawful construction, alteration and
occupancy of a single or two-family dwelling and buildings accessory
thereto, with the exception of solar energy systems, as established in
Section [1271.06](52f5c3a5.html) of the Planning and Zoning Code on a
lot on which there exists no other principal building or use, and any
lawful use, alteration or construction in the A-1 District, are exempt
from this chapter. (Ord. 12-37. Passed 8-16-12.)

​(b) Limited Additions, Limited Alterations. Additions to an existing
structure that increase the floor area of a structure by less than ten
percent (10%) shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
Additions amounting to less than one thousand (1,000) square feet in
floor area shall also be exempted. Alterations that increase the
structure height less than ten percent (10%) shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.

(Ord. 07-5. Passed 2-15-07.)

​(c) Repairs and Maintenance. The ordinary repair or maintenance of a
building, structure, landscaping, screening or other site improvement
shall not require the preparation or approval of a site plan.

(Ord. 00-16. Passed 2-17-00.)

​(d) Redevelopment of Certain Commercial Land Uses. In the event of a
proposal to redevelop particular land uses identified in Section
[1280.08](5559651b.html)(b) if all of the following circumstances are
met:

​(1) The redevelopment does not result in a change in existing land uses
on the parcel(s).

​(2) The redevelopment does not add to the parcel(s) upon which the
current land uses are located.

​(3) The parcel(s) upon which the current land use is located is so
constrained in terms of size, shape or accessibility that the literal
application of the provisions of Section [1280.08](5559651b.html)(b)
would be impractical or undesirable.

Exemption from the requirements of Section [1280.08](5559651b.html)(b)
may be granted only to the extent necessary to compensate for the
constraints identified in (3) above which are present on the site and
which present a material obstacle to redevelopment. No exemption shall
be granted which increases risk to the public health or safety.

(Ord. 01-26. Passed 6-21-01.)
