1284.02 PROCEDURES FOR CHANGES IN DISTRICTS AND AMENDMENT OF ZONING CODE GENERALLY.
===================================================================================

​(a) Applications for any change of district boundaries or
classifications of property as shown on the Official Zoning Map shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission at its public office, upon such
forms as the Commission provides, and shall be accompanied by such data
and information as may be prescribed for that purpose by the Commission,
so as to ensure the fullest practical presentation of facts for the
permanent record. Each proposal for a zone change shall be accompanied
by a reproducible vicinity map, at a scale approved by the Building and
Zoning Inspector, showing the property lines, streets and existing and
proposed zoning. Each such application shall be verified by at least one
of the owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be
reclassified, attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and
information presented with the applications. Applications for amendments
initiated by the Commission shall be accompanied by its motion
pertaining to such proposed amendment.

​(b) The procedure for the amendment of this Zoning Code shall be as set
forth in Ohio R.C. Chapter 713. (Ord. 546B. Passed 2-25-76.)

​(c) When an application for rezoning has been denied, a second
application for an identical change in zoning may not be filed for a
period of two years from the date of which the prior request was denied.

(Ord. 89-25. Passed 3-4-89.)
