---
layout: default 
title: 1444.03 NOTICES TO REPAIR; CONFORMITY WITH
BUILDING AND HOUSING AND ZONING CODES REQUIRED.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Upon a determination by the Building and Zoning Inspector that any
building, dwelling or structure is in an advanced state of disrepair by
reason of defective or inadequate plumbing or sanitary facilities;
faulty or defective electric wiring; the accumulation of debris, filth,
rubbish or garbage; general deterioration in the structure due to age,
neglect, exposure to the elements or vandalism; failure of the exterior
enclosure causing exposure to the elements and a general deterioration
of the structure; partial damage to the structure due to fire, windstorm
or other calamity; or deterioration or damage to the foundation, so as
to endanger the health, safety and welfare of the public and is
therefore a public nuisance, the Inspector shall direct the owner of
such building, dwelling or structure, in writing, by certified mail, at
the last known address of such owner, to effect the repairs necessary to
put the building in a reasonably safe condition. If the owner is unknown
or cannot be located, the Inspector shall publish such notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality for not less than
two consecutive weeks. No repairs shall be made unless all requirements
of this Building and Housing Code and the Zoning Code are complied with.
(Ord. 649. Passed 6-16-77.)
