1444.04 APPEALS.
================

​(a) Within sixty days after receipt or after the last publication of
the notice made pursuant to Section [1444.03](573e5bd5.html), the owner
of the building, dwelling or structure may appeal, in writing, to
Council, the finding by the Building and Zoning Inspector that such
building, dwelling or structure is in such an advanced state of
disrepair as to endanger the health, safety and welfare of the public.

​(b) Upon receipt of the written appeal, Council shall set the matter
down for hearing within thirty days after receiving notice of appeal and
the owner shall have an opportunity to appear before Council and to
present evidence that the building, dwelling or structure is not in such
an advanced state of disrepair, for any of the reasons set forth in
Section [1444.03](573e5bd5.html), as to endanger the health, safety and
welfare of the public and, therefore, is not a public nuisance.

​(c) If no appeal is filed from the finding of the Inspector within such
sixty-day period, or if Council affirms the finding of the Inspector and
determines that the building, dwelling or structure involved is a public
nuisance, Council shall order the Clerk of Council to advertise for bids
for the demolition and removal of the building, dwelling or structure in
accordance with law, unless the owner has repaired the same in
accordance with requirements of this Building and Housing Code.

​(d) If Council is apprised that the owner has appealed its decision to
the Common Pleas Court or any other court having jurisdiction of such an
appeal, the matter will be held in abeyance until further order of the
court. (Ord. 649. Passed 6-16-77.)
