---
layout: default 
title: 1448.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
---

{{ page.title }}
================

​(a) Statutory Authorization. Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio
Constitution grants municipalities the legal authority to adopt land use
and control measures for promoting the health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Council of Springboro, State of
Ohio, does ordain as follows:

​(b) Findings of Fact. The City of Springboro has special flood hazard
areas that are subject to periodic inundation which may result in loss
of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce
and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. Additionally,
structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In order
to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.

​(c) Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of these regulations to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and to:

​(1) Protect human life and health;

​(2) Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;

​(3) Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;

​(4) Minimize prolonged business interruptions;

​(5) Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;

​(6) Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property
and minimize future flood blight areas;

​(7) Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions;

​(8) Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within
and near flood prone areas;

​(9) Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;

​(10) Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial
values of the floodplain;

​(11) Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or
environmentally incompatible; and

​(12) Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.

​(d) Methods of Reducing Flood Loss. In order to accomplish its
purposes, these regulations include methods and provisions for:

​(1) Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in flood heights or velocities;

​(2) Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities,
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of
initial construction;

​(3) Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;

​(4) Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and,

​(5) Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood, waters or which may increase flood
hazards in other areas.

​(e) Lands to Which These Regulations Apply. These regulations shall
apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of
the City of Springboro as identified in Section
[1448.01](576787ff.html)(f), including any additional areas of special
flood hazard annexed by City of Springboro.

​(f) Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard. For the
purposes of these regulations, the following studies and / or maps are
adopted:

​(1) *Flood Insurance Study Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas*
and *Flood Insurance Rate Map Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated
Areas* both effective December 17, 2010.

​(2) Other studies and / or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the
100-year floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special
flood hazard.

​(3) Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered Professional Engineer in the State of Ohio which has been
approved by the City of Springboro as required by Section
[1448.04](58253716.html)(c) Subdivisions and Large Scale Developments.

Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and / or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations.
Such maps and/or studies are on file at the Municipal Building at 320
West Central Avenue, Springboro, Ohio 45066.

​(g) Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. These regulations are not
intended to repeal any existing ordinances including subdivision
regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a conflict
between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more restrictive
shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to such interests
shall also be governed by the regulations.

​(h) Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of these
regulations, all provisions shall be:

​(1) Considered as minimum requirements;

​(2) Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,

​(3) Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in
conflict with a state or Federal law, such state or Federal law shall
take precedence over these regulations.

​(i) Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The degree of flood protection
required by these regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations.
Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do not imply
that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These
regulations shall not create liability on the part of the City of
Springboro, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, for any flood damage that results from reliance on
these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.

​(j) Severability. Should any section or provision of these regulations
be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole, or
any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional
or invalid. (Ord. 10-37. Passed 11-4-10.)
