---
layout: default
title: "1448&#46;06 ENFORCEMENT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

(a) Compliance Required.

(1) No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations, unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in Section [1448.03](57d2ab80.html)(i).

(2) Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with Section [1448.06](58a06e23.html)(c).

(3) Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use, and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in accordance with Section [1448.06](58a06e23.html)(c).

(b) Notice of Violation. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a violation of any provision of these regulations, he shall give notice of such violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with these regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:

(1) Be put in writing on an appropriate form;

(2) Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;

(3) Specify a reasonable time for performance;

(4) Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal;

(5) Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner, occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.

(c) Violations and Penalties. Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and shall constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the City of Springboro. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of Springboro from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The City of Springboro shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with the penalties stated herein. (Ord. 10-37. Passed 11-4-10.)