---
layout: default 
title: "1464&#46;02 BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTORS; FEES; INSPECTIONS; CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The Manager is hereby authorized to enter into a contract with one
or more individuals suitably qualified to act as deputy building and
zoning inspectors for the Municipality under the immediate supervision
of the Building and Zoning Inspector, which position is established in
Section [1262.01](4d24dd4b.html) of the Planning and Zoning Code.

(Ord. 873. Passed 3-6-80.)

​(b) The fee for performing building and zoning inspections in the
Municipality shall be as set forth in Appendix A of this chapter for
each zoning inspection and each building inspection made pursuant to
subsections (c) through (f) hereof.

​(c) For each building constructed in the Municipality, at least the
following inspections shall be made:

​(1) A footer inspection;

​(2) A slab or crawlspace preparation inspection;

​(3) A framing inspection;

​(4) A final inspection; and

​(5) Other inspections as determined by the Chief Building Official.

​(d) The fee for a zoning inspection and the four basic building
inspections, plus others as required under Municipal ordinance, shall be
paid out of the building permit fees set forth in Section
[1464.04](590733b4.html). However, after one free call-back inspection,
the fee for each additional call-back inspection shall be as set forth
in Appendix A of this chapter.

​(e) No building permit shall be issued to a contractor, developer or
individual until:

​(1) Water and sewer service fees are paid.

​(2) Building permit fees are paid.

​(3) Bonds for cutting and patching streets are presented.

​(4) All previous construction has been approved.

​(5) All previous debts to the Municipality have been paid.

​(6) All previous finals are approved and Certificate of Occupancy has
been issued.

(Ord. 93-46. Passed 7-1-93.)

​(f) No certificate of occupancy shall be granted until water meters,
water and sewer inspections and extra building inspections are paid for
and releases are shown from the County Inspector for electrical and
plumbing inspections.

(Ord. 873. Passed 3-6-80.)
