---
layout: default 
title: "1472.03 PERMIT APPLICATION AND FEE."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) The owner, or occupant with written permission from the owner, of
any lot, premises or parcel of land within the City, who desires to
construct or place an outdoor antenna on such lot, premises or land
parcel, shall first obtain a permit to do so from the City Manager, or
his representative.

​(b) The City Manager or his designated representative shall issue such
permit, provided the applicant submits a written application upon form
provided and approved by the City Manager or his designated
representative, along with a plot plan of the lot, premises or land
parcel attached, showing the exact location of all buildings or
structures, and plans and specifications for the construction or
placement of the outdoor antenna.

​(c) Each application shall specify among other things the name and
address of the owner of the real estate, the applicant, the firm or
person to be permitted to construct the proposed outdoor antenna.

​(d) The applicant shall present documentation of the possession of any
license or permit required by any Federal, State or local agency
pertaining to the ownership, construction or operation of an outdoor
antenna.

(Ord. 87-86. Passed 11-19-87.)

​(e) The applicant shall submit with each application the fee as set
forth in Appendix A of Chapter [1464](58d37b9c.html) which represents
costs of reviewing the construction of placement plans and
specifications, inspecting the final construction or placement, and
processing the application.

(Ord. 93-46. Passed 7-1-93.)
