---
layout: default 
title: "1472.04 REQUIREMENTS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Number.

​(1) At no time shall more than one outdoor "dish-type" antenna, one
conventional antenna and one ham radio antenna be permitted on any one
lot.

​(b) Location.

​(1) No outdoor antenna shall be located in any front or side yard as
defined in the Springboro Planning and Zoning Code.

​(2) No outdoor antenna including its concrete base slab or other
substructure, shall be located less than eight feet from any property
line, nor over any easement.

​(3) Outdoor antennas if not ground mounted, shall be mounted directly
upon the roof of a primary or accessory structure, as defined in the
Building Code, and shall not be mounted upon appurtenances such as
chimneys, towers, trees, poles or spires.

​(c) Height.

​(1) No part of any ground mounted or ground placed outdoor antenna
shall exceed a height of thirty-five feet above the surface of the
ground underneath the antenna.

​(2) No roof mounted outdoor antenna shall exceed a height of more than
four feet above the highest portion of the roof upon which the antenna
is mounted.

​(d) Size of Dish.

​(1) No dish of a ground mounted outdoor dish-type antenna shall exceed
twelve feet in diameter.

​(2) No dish of a roof mounted outdoor dish-type antenna shall exceed
four feet in diameter.

​(e) Wind Load.

​(1) All outdoor antennas shall be designed to withstand a wind force
without the use of supporting guy wires of eighty-five miles per hour
for roof mounted antennas and seventy-five miles per hour for ground
mounted antennas and towers.

​(f) Structural Supports.

​(1) All structural supports for outdoor antennas shall be constructed
of corrosion resistant material.

​(g) Electrical Safety.

​(1) No outdoor antenna shall be located beneath or in close proximity
to any potentially dangerous electrical power lines.

​(2) Any portion of an outdoor antenna utilizing potentially dangerous
electrical voltage shall be enclosed inside an approved protective
covering.

​(3) Each outdoor antenna shall be connected to an approved grounding
rod which is permanently positioned in the earth to serve as an
electrical conductor through which electrical current may safely pass
and dissipate.

​(4) Wiring between an outdoor antenna and a building shall be placed at
least twelve inches beneath the surface of the ground. Portable or
vehicle mounted outdoor antennas shall be exempt from this requirement.

​(h) Portable or Vehicle Mounted Outdoor Antennas.

​(1) A portable or vehicle mounted outdoor antenna shall comply with all
the requirements of this chapter when located outdoors on a lot,
including the requirement for a permit.

​(2) A portable or vehicle mounted outdoor antenna shall be permitted on
a lot for a time period not to exceed seven days in any one calendar
year.

(Ord. 87-86. Passed 11-19-87.)
