---
layout: default 
title: "1476&#46;03 PROCEDURE&#46;"
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) In the event of any loss by fire within the City occurring after
the effective date of this section when the amount of such loss agreed
to between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies
insuring such loss equals or exceeds sixty percent (60%) of the
aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering the building
or structure insured, the insurance company or companies in accordance
with Ohio R.C. 715.26(F), shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to
the Director of Finance of the City of Springboro in the aggregate one
thousand dollars (\$1,000) for each twenty thousand dollars (\$20,000),
and each fraction of that amount, of a claim, or, if at the time of a
proof of loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds have
submitted a contractor's signed estimate of the costs of removing,
repairing or securing the building or other structure, shall transfer
from the insurance proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.

​(b) Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
companies insuring the building or other structure.

​(c) The named insured or insureds may submit a contractor's signed
estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or
other structure after the transfer, and the Director of Finance shall
place the proceeds in the Fire Insurance Trust Fund to be used solely as
security against the total cost of removing, repairing or securing
incurred by the City pursuant to Ohio R.C. 715.261.

​(d) When transferring the funds as required by this section an
insurance company shall provide the Director of Finance with the name
and address of the named insured or insureds, whereupon the Director of
Finance or his designee shall contact the named insured or insureds,
certify that the proceeds have been received by the City and notify them
that the following procedures will be followed:

​(e) The fund shall be returned to the named insured or insureds when
the repairs or removal, or securing of the building or other structure
have been completed and the required proof received by the Director of
Finance. If the City has incurred any costs for repairs, removal or
securing of the building or other structure, such costs shall be paid
from the fund and if excess funds remain, the City of Springboro shall
transfer the remaining funds to the insured or insureds. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit the ability of the City to recover
any deficiency under Ohio R.C. 715.261.

​(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the City and
the named insured or insureds from entering into an agreement that
permits the transfer of funds to the named insured or insureds if some
other reasonable disposition of the damaged property has been
negotiated.

(Ord. 90-41. Passed 7-5-90.)
