---
layout: default 
title: "1610.04 ENFORCEMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPAL FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall serve as Municipal Fire Safety Inspector unless he
has received a certificate issued by the State Board of Emergency
Medical Services under former Ohio R.C. 3303.07 or 4765.55 evidencing
his satisfactory completion of a fire safety inspection training
program.

(ORC 3737.34)

​(b) The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon examination or
inspection, shall issue citations when he finds conditions as specified
in Ohio R.C. 3737.41 which are especially dangerous to the safety of
persons, buildings, premises or property, and shall make any necessary
remedial orders in connection therewith. Citation enforcement may be by
use of the procedures established by Ohio R.C. 3737.42 for hearing on
the citation or Ohio R.C. 3737.44 for injunctive relief or a temporary
restraining order and oral order for vacation of the building or
premises.

​(c) The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon reasonable belief and
after inspection or investigation, shall, with reasonable promptness,
issue a citation to the responsible person for a violation of the Ohio
Fire Code or any order issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal or any Municipal
Fire Safety Inspector. The citation shall fix a reasonable time for
abatement of the violation. Each citation issued under this subsection
shall be prominently posted by the responsible person, as prescribed by
the Ohio Fire Code, at or near each place a violation referred to in the
citation occurs.

​(d) Upon request of the Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, the Solicitor
shall institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding to
enforce this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3737.
