---
layout: default 
title: 1610.99 PENALTY..
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(1) Whoever violates Section [1610.05](5a4efc34.html)(a) is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars (\$1,000) or imprisoned not more than six months, or
both. (ORC 3737.99(B))

​(2) Whoever violates Section [1610.06](5a4efc34.html) is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars
(\$100.00).

(ORC 3737.99(C))

​(3) Whoever violates Section [1610.09](5a58af40.html) is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined not more than two
hundred fifty dollars (\$250.00) or imprisoned not more than thirty
days, or both.

(ORC 3737.99(D))

​(4) Whoever violates Section [1610.10](5a5cb68b.html) is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars (\$500.00) or imprisoned not more than sixty days, or
both.

(ORC 3737.99(E))

​(b) Civil Penalties.

​(1) Any person who has received a citation for a serious violation of
the Ohio Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it shall be assessed
a civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars (\$1,000) for each
such violation.

​(2) Any person who has received a citation for a violation of the Ohio
Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it, and such violation is
specifically determined not to be of a serious nature, may be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars (\$1,000) for each
such violation.

​(3) Any person who fails to correct a violation for which a citation
has been issued, within the period permitted for its correction, may be
assessed a civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars (\$1,000)
for each day during which such failure or violation continues.

​(4) Any person who violates any of the posting requirements, as
prescribed by Section [1610.04](5a442eb1.html)(c) shall be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars (\$1,000) for each
violation.

​(5) Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person
being charged and the history of previous violations shall be given
whenever a penalty is assessed under this chapter.

​(6) For purposes of this section, a serious violation shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an
occurrence causing death or serious physical harm to persons could
result from a condition which exists, or from one or more practices,
means, methods, operations or processes which have been adopted or are
in use, unless the person did not and could not, with the exercise of
reasonable diligence, know of the presence of the violation.

​(7) Civil penalties imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the
Clerk of Council for deposit into the General Fund. Such penalties may
be recovered in a civil action in the name of the Municipality brought
in the Court of Common Pleas. (ORC 3737.51(B) to (H))

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
