---
layout: default
title: "1619&#46;01 DEFINITIONS."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

As used in this chapter:

(a) &quot;Beer&quot; and &quot;intoxicating liquor&quot; have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4301.01.

(b) &quot;Booby trap&quot; means a small tube that has a string protruding from both ends, that has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of the string.

(c) &quot;Cigarette load&quot; means a small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.

(d) (1) "1.3 G fireworks" means display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation "Division 1.3&quot; in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.

(2) "1.4 G fireworks" means consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation "Division 1.4&quot; in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.

(e) &quot;Controlled substance&quot; has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3719.01.

(f) &quot;Fireworks&quot; means any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, except ordinary matches and except as provided in Section [1619.05](5aded720.html).

(g) &quot;Licensed exhibitor of fireworks&quot; or &quot;licensed exhibitor&quot; means a person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55.

(h) &quot;Licensed manufacturer of fireworks&quot; or &quot;licensed manufacturer&quot; means a person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.02 to 3743.08.

(i) &quot;Licensed wholesaler of fireworks&quot; or &quot;licensed wholesaler&quot; means a person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.15 to 3743.21.

(j) &quot;Novelties and trick noisemakers&quot; include the following items:

(1) Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user, including, but not limited to, booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers and snappers;

(2) Snakes or glow worms;

(3) Smoke devices;

(4) Trick matches.

(k) &quot;Party popper&quot; means a small plastic or paper item that contains not more than sixteen milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition, that is ignited by pulling string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are expelled when the item is ignited.

(l) &quot;Railroad&quot; means any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings installed and primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.

(m) &quot;Smoke device&quot; means a tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.

(n) &quot;Snake or glow worm&quot; means a device that consists of a pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning, which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.

(o) &quot;Snapper&quot; means a small, paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand, and that, when dropped, implodes.

(p) &quot;Trick match&quot; means a kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a shower of sparks.

(q) "Wire sparkler" means a sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a non- explosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition and that contains no more than one hundred grams of this mixture.

(ORC 3743.01)