---
layout: default 
title: "1619&#46;04 POSSESSION, SALE OR DISCHARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS."---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) No person shall possess fireworks in this Municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this Municipality, except a
licensed manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.02 to
3743.08, a licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C.
3743.15 to 3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by Ohio R.C.
3743.40, an out-of-state resident as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.44, a
resident of this State as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.45, or a licensed
exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55 and
Section [1619.05](5ab8060d.html).

​(b) Except as provided in Section [1619.02](5aded720.html), no person
shall discharge, ignite or explode any fireworks in this Municipality.

​(c) No person shall use in a theater or public hall, what is
technically known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing
potassium chlorate and sulphur.

​(d) No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under
eighteen years of age. No person under eighteen years of age shall enter
a fireworks sales showroom unless that person is accompanied by a
parent, legal guardian, or other responsible adult. No person under
eighteen years of age shall touch or possess fireworks on a licensed
premises without the consent of the licensee. A licensee may eject any
person from a licensed premises that is in any way disruptive to the
safe operation of the premises.

​(e) No person, other than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler,
licensed exhibitor, or shipping permit holder, shall possess 1.3 G
fireworks.

(ORC 3743.65)
