---
layout: default 
title: "1619&#46;05 APPLICATION."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

This chapter does not prohibit or apply to the following:

​(a) The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress
signals for marine, aviation or highway use;

​(b) The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation
of railroads;

​(c) The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in
connection with athletics as signals or for ceremonial purposes;

​(d) The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or sale to the Armed Forces of the United States and the militia of
this State of pyrotechnic devices;

​(e) The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of
explosive material are used, provided that they are constructed so that
a hand cannot come into contact with a cap when it is in place for
explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale, possession,
transportation, storage or use of those caps;

​(f) The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets
and model rocket motors designed, sold and used for the purpose of
propelling recoverable aero models;

​(g) The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of wire sparklers.

​(h) The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use
an explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per
charge, and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges,
provided that the exhibition complies with all of following:

​(1) No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;

​(2) The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than two
hundred feet;

​(3) The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States
Department of the Treasury and the United States Department of
Transportation with respect to the storage and transport of the
explosive black powder used in the exhibition.

(ORC 3743.80)
