---
layout: default 
title: "648.10 NOISE ABATEMENT."
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------

​(a) Definitions.

​(1) "Construction" includes any site preparation, assembly, erection,
repair, alteration, or similar action, or demolition of buildings or
structures.

​(2) "Emergency work" is any work or action necessary to deliver
essential services including, but not limited to, repairing water, gas,
electric, and other utilities or public transportation facilities,
removing fallen trees on public rights-of-way, or abating
life-threatening conditions.

​(3) "Noise" is any sound of such level and duration as to be or tend to
be injurious to human health or welfare, or which would unreasonably
interfere with the enjoyment of life or property throughout the City or
in any portions thereof.

​(4) "Manufacturing zoning district," means the M-1, Light Manufacturing
Zoning District; the M-2, Heavy Manufacturing Zoning District; the
ED-Employment Center District; the ADD-1, Austin Center Development
District; or any PUD, Planned Unit Development, that allows
manufacturing as a permitted use.

​(b) No owner, manager or any person in charge or control of a property
shall engage in or permit the playing of musical or other instruments,
singing, loud talking or the making of other noises in or about the
premises in such manner as to audible beyond the property line of the
property on which the premises sits between the hours of 9:30 p.m. and
8:00 a.m. the next day Sunday through Thursday; and between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the next day on Friday and Saturday. Extended
hours for special events may be approved via the office of the City
Manager or Chief of Police if requested at least one week prior to the
event.

​(c) Exceptions.

​(1) The legal operation of manufacturing operations in manufacturing
zoning districts and manufacturing operations legally operating in other
areas at the time of the adoption of this section.

​(2) Emergency work.

​(3) The operation of vehicular traffic, including warning signals, on
public or semi-public rights-of-way, subject to applicable regulations
in the Traffic Code of the City of Springboro.

​(4) The reasonable ringing of church bells, the reasonable and ordinary
noises attendant in athletic contests or lawful public or semi-public
meetings, parades or celebrations.

​(5) City operations and activities.

​(6) Construction activity and vehicle, machinery, or other similar
equipment repair outside of a completely enclosed structure except
between 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any land within a residential zoning
district.

​(d) Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Punishment shall be as provided in Section [698.02](38e2f631.html).
(Ord. 12-27. Passed 6-7-12.)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
